Name: Albuterol

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol Sulfate HFA is a beta 2 -adrenergic agonist indicated for: Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older with reversible obstructive airway disease. ( 1.1 ) Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Bronchospasm Albuterol Sulfate HFA Inhalation Aerosol is indicated for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older with reversible obstructive airway disease. 1.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchospasm Albuterol Sulfate HFA is indicated for the prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only. ( 2 ) Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older: 2 inhalations by oral inhalation every 4 to 6 hours. For some patients, 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient. ( 2.1 ) Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older: 2 inhalations by oral inhalation 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. ( 2.2 ) Priming information: Prime Albuterol Sulfate HFA before using for the first time, when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks, or when the inhaler has been dropped. To prime Albuterol Sulfate HFA, release 4 sprays into the air away from the face, shaking well before each spray. ( 2.3 ) Cleaning information: At least once a week, wash the actuator with warm water and let it air-dry completely. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for Bronchospasm (Acute Episodes or Symptoms Associated with Bronchospasm) Adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older: 2 inhalations by oral inhalation repeated every 4 to 6 hours; in some patients, 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient. More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations is not recommended. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Prevention of Exercise-Induced Bronchospasm Adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older: 2 inhalations by oral inhalation 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. 2.3 Administration Information Albuterol Sulfate HFA should be administered by the orally inhaled route only. Priming Priming Albuterol Sulfate HFA is essential to ensure appropriate albuterol content in each actuation. Prime Albuterol Sulfate HFA before using for the first time, when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks, or when the inhaler has been dropped. To prime Albuterol Sulfate HFA, release 4 sprays into the air away from the face, shaking well before each spray. Avoid spraying in eyes. Cleaning To ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage, wash the actuator with warm water and let it air-dry completely at least once a week.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Albuterol Sulfate HFA Inhalation Aerosol is supplied in the following box of 1 as a pressurized aluminum canister fitted with a counter and supplied with a blue plastic actuator with a blue cap: NDC 80425-0359-01 18-g canister containing 200 actuations Each inhaler is packaged with a Patient Information leaflet. The blue actuator supplied with Albuterol Sulfate HFA should not be used with any other product canisters, and actuators from other products should not be used with an Albuterol Sulfate HFA canister. Counter Albuterol Sulfate HFA has a counter attached to the canister. The counter starts at 204 and counts down each time a spray is released. The correct amount of medication in each actuation cannot be assured after the counter reads 000, even though the canister is not completely empty and will continue to operate. The inhaler should be discarded when the counter reads 000. Contents Under Pressure Do not puncture. Do not use or store near heat or open flame. Exposure to temperatures above 120°F may cause bursting. Never throw canister into fire or incinerator. Storage Store at room temperature between 68°F and 77°F (20°C and 25°C); excursions permitted from 59°F to 86°F (15°C to 30°C) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Store the inhaler with the mouthpiece down. For best results, the inhaler should be at room temperature before use.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 04c8a345-0a0d-5a01-e063-6294a90a40d2
