Name: Alendronate

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BINOSTO is a bisphosphonate indicated for: Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women ( 1.1 ) Treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis ( 1.2 ) Limitation of use: Optimal duration of use has not been determined. For patients at low-risk for fracture, consider drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women BINOSTO effervescent tablet 70 mg is indicated for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. For the treatment of osteoporosis, alendronate sodium increases bone mass and reduces the incidence of fractures, including those of the hip and spine (vertebral compression fractures). [See Clinical Studies (14.1) .] 1.2 Treatment to Increase Bone Mass in Men With Osteoporosis BINOSTO is indicated for treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Important Limitations of Use The optimal duration of use has not been determined. The safety and effectiveness of BINOSTO for the treatment of osteoporosis are based on clinical data of four years duration. All patients on bisphosphonate therapy should have the need for continued therapy re-evaluated on a periodic basis. Patients at low-risk for fracture should be considered for drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use. Patients who discontinue therapy should have their risk for fracture re-evaluated periodically.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 70 mg BINOSTO effervescent tablet once weekly. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Instruct patients to: ( 2.3 ) Dissolve one tablet of BINOSTO in approximately half a glass of plain room temperature water (4 oz). Wait at least 5 minutes after the effervescence stops, stir the solution for approximately 10 seconds and consume contents. Swallow solution at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or medication of the day. Avoid lying down for at least 30 minutes after taking BINOSTO and until after the first food of the day. 2.1 Treatment of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women The recommended dosage is one 70 mg effervescent tablet once weekly. 2.2 Treatment to Increase Bone Mass in Men With Osteoporosis The recommended dosage is one 70 mg effervescent tablet once weekly. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Instruct patients to do the following to assure adequate drug absorption and to decrease the risk of esophageal adverse reactions: i. Take BINOSTO upon arising for the day and at least 30 minutes before the first food, beverage, or medication of the day. Patients should not swallow the undissolved effervescent tablet, should not chew the effervescent tablet or allow the effervescent tablet to dissolve in their mouths because of the risk for oropharyngeal irritation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Dissolve the effervescent tablet in 4 ounces room temperature plain water only (not mineral water or flavored water). ii. Wait at least 5 minutes after the effervescence stops and then stir the buffered solution for approximately 10 seconds and ingest. iii. Avoid lying down for at least 30 minutes after taking BINOSTO and until after their first food of the day. iv. Do not take BINOSTO at bedtime or before arising for the day. Failure to follow these instructions may increase the risk of esophageal adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.4 Recommendations for Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation Instruct patients to take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Patients at increased risk for vitamin D insufficiency (e.g., over the age of 70 years, nursing home-bound, or chronically ill) may need vitamin D supplementation. Patients with gastrointestinal malabsorption syndromes may require higher doses of vitamin D supplementation and measurement of 25-hydroxyvitamin D should be considered. 2.5 Administration Instructions for Missed Doses If the once-weekly dose is missed, instruct patients to take one dose on the morning after they remember. They should not take 2 doses on the same day but should return to taking one dose once a week, as originally scheduled on their chosen day.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING BINOSTO effervescent tablets are round, flat faced, white to off-white tablets with beveled edges and "M" debossed on one side. BINOSTO effervescent tablets, 70 mg are provided in blisters made of aluminum foil composite, as follows: NDC 70539-400-04 carton containing 4 units of use blisters Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F), excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F), [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Protect from moisture. Store tablets in original blister package until use.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 09765234-01bc-40f7-b9bb-c167056f3909
