Name: Aliskiren

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tekturna is a renin inhibitor (RI) indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and in pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater who are at least 6 years of age, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Tekturna is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and in pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater who are at least 6 years of age and older to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with Tekturna. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality have also been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (e.g., patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose (adults and pediatric patients): 150 mg once daily with a routine pattern with regard to meals. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled titrate up to 300 mg daily. ( 2.1 ) Majority of effect of given dose attained in 2 weeks. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage In adult patients and in pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater who are at least 6 years of age, the recommended starting dose of Tekturna is 150 mg once daily. In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled, the daily dose may be increased to 300 mg once daily. Doses above 300 mg did not give an increased blood pressure response but resulted in an increased rate of diarrhea. The antihypertensive effect of a given dosage is substantially attained (85% to 90%) by 2 weeks. 2.2 Relationship to Meals Patients should establish a routine pattern for taking Tekturna with regard to meals. High-fat meals decrease absorption substantially [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Tekturna tablets are supplied as a light-pink, biconvex round tablet containing 150 mg of aliskiren, and as a light-red biconvex ovaloid tablet containing 300 mg of aliskiren. Tablets are imprinted with NVR on one side and IL, IU, on the other side of the 150 mg and 300 mg tablets, respectively. All strengths are packaged in bottles and unit-dose blister packages (10 strips of 10 tablets) as described below in Table 7 . Table 7: Tekturna Tablets Supply Tablet Color Imprint Imprint NDC 70839-XXX-XX Side 1 Side 2 Bottle of 30 Bottle of 90 Blister Packages of 100 150 mg Light-Pink NVR IL 150-30 150-90 150-01 300 mg Light-Red NVR IU 300-30 300-90 300-01 Store at 20°C to 25ºC (68°F to 77ºF); excursions permitted to 15ºC to 30ºC (59 ºF to 86ºF) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture. Dispense blisters in original container.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 3dd61fa5-1620-4ebf-bbdb-ede29b92fce2
