Name: Alosetron

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Alosetron tablets are indicated only for women with severe diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) who have: chronic IBS symptoms (generally lasting 6 months or longer), had anatomic or biochemical abnormalities of the gastrointestinal tract excluded, and not responded adequately to conventional therapy. Diarrhea-predominant IBS is severe if it includes diarrhea and one or more of the following: frequent and severe abdominal pain/discomfort, frequent bowel urgency or fecal incontinence, disability or restriction of daily activities due to IBS. Because of infrequent but serious gastrointestinal adverse reactions associated with alosetron tablets, the indication is restricted to those patients for whom the benefit-to-risk balance is most favorable. Clinical studies have not been performed to adequately confirm the benefits of alosetron tablets in men. Alosetron tablets are selective serotonin 5-HT 3 antagonist indicated only for women with severe diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) who have: chronic IBS symptoms (generally lasting 6 months or longer), had anatomic or biochemical abnormalities of the gastrointestinal tract excluded and not responded adequately to conventional therapy. ( 1 ) Severe IBS includes diarrhea and 1 or more of the following: frequent and severe abdominal pain/discomfort, frequent bowel urgency or fecal incontinence, disability or restriction of daily activities due to IBS. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose is 0.5 mg twice a day ( 2.1 ) May increase dose to 1 mg twice a day after 4 weeks if starting dosage is well tolerated but does not adequately control IBS symptoms ( 2.1 ) Discontinue alosetron tablets in patients who have not had adequate control of IBS symptoms after 4 weeks of treatment with 1 mg twice a day. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Adult Patients To lower the risk of constipation, alosetron tablets should be started at a dosage of 0.5 mg twice a day. Patients who become constipated at this dosage should stop taking alosetron tablets until the constipation resolves. They may be restarted at 0.5 mg once a day. If constipation recurs at the lower dose, Alosetron tablets should be discontinued immediately. Patients well controlled on 0.5 mg once or twice a day may be maintained on this regimen. If after 4 weeks the dosage is well tolerated but does not adequately control IBS symptoms, then the dosage can be increased to up to 1 mg twice a day. Alosetron tablets should be discontinued in patients who have not had adequate control of IBS symptoms after 4 weeks of treatment with 1 mg twice a day. Alosetron tablets can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Alosetron tablets should be discontinued immediately in patients who develop constipation or signs of ischemic colitis. Alosetron tablets should not be restarted in patients who develop ischemic colitis. Clinical trial and postmarketing experience suggest that debilitated patients or patients taking additional medications that decrease gastrointestinal motility may be at greater risk of serious complications of constipation. Therefore, appropriate caution and follow-up should be exercised if alosetron tablets are prescribed for these patients. Postmarketing experience suggests that elderly patients may be at greater risk for complications of constipation; therefore, appropriate caution and follow-up should be exercised if alosetron tablets are prescribed for these patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.2 Patients with Hepatic Impairment Alosetron tablets are extensively metabolized by the liver, and increased exposure to alosetron tablets is likely to occur in patients with hepatic impairment. Increased drug exposure may increase the risk of serious adverse reactions. Alosetron tablets should be used with caution in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ].

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Alosetron Tablets USP, 0.5 mg (0.562 mg alosetron HCl equivalent to 0.5 mg alosetron), are round, film coated, white colored biconvex tablets debossed with "LS 702" on one side and plain on other side. Bottles of 30 (NDC 70756-702-30) with child-resistant closures. Alosetron Tablets USP, 1 mg (1.124 mg alosetron HCl equivalent to 1 mg alosetron), are round, film coated, blue colored biconvex tablets debossed with "LS 701" on one side and plain on other side. Bottles of 30 (NDC 70756-701-30) with child-resistant closures. Store at 20-25°C (68-77°F) (See USP Controlled Room Temperature). Protect from light and moisture. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP using a child-resistant closure.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 2846a244-7540-442b-81bc-638e641497ce
