Name: Alprazolam

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Alprazolam tablets are indicated for the: acute treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. treatment of panic disorder (PD), with or without agoraphobia in adults. Alprazolam is a benzodiazepine indicated for the: Acute treatment of generalized anxiety disorder in adults. ( 1 ) Treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia in adults. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Generalized Anxiety Disorder : ( 2.1 ) Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg three times daily. Dosage may be increased, at intervals of every 3 to 4 days, to a maximum recommended daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. Use the lowest possible effective dose and frequently assess the need for continued treatment. Panic Disorder : Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.5 mg three times daily. The dosage may be increased at intervals of every 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day. ( 2.2 ) When tapering, decrease dosage by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may require an even slower dosage reduction. ( 2.3 , 5.2 ) See the Full Prescribing Information for the recommended dosage in geriatric patients, patients with hepatic impairment, and with use with ritonavir. ( 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Dosage in Generalized Anxiety Disorder The recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam tablets for the acute treatment of patients with GAD is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg administered three times daily. Depending upon the response, the dosage may be adjusted at intervals of every 3 to 4 days. The maximum recommended dosage is 4 mg daily (in divided doses). Use the lowest possible effective dose and frequently assess the need for continued treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.2 Dosage in Panic Disorder The recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam tablets for the treatment of PD is 0.5 mg three times daily. Depending on the response, the dosage may be increased at intervals of every 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day. Controlled trials of alprazolam tablets in the treatment of panic disorder included dosages in the range of 1 mg to 10 mg daily. The mean dosage was approximately 5 mg to 6 mg daily. Occasional patients required as much as 10 mg per day. For patients receiving doses greater than 4 mg per day, periodic reassessment and consideration of dosage reduction is advised. In a controlled postmarketing dose-response study, patients treated with doses of alprazolam tablets greater than 4 mg per day for 3 months were able to taper to 50% of their total maintenance dose without apparent loss of clinical benefit. The necessary duration of treatment for PD in patients responding to alprazolam tablets are unknown. After a period of extended freedom from panic attacks, a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted, but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and/or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. 2.3 Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam Tablets To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue alprazolam tablets or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. Reduced the dosage by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may benefit from an even more gradual discontinuation. Some patients may prove resistant to all discontinuation regimens. In a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients which compared the recommended taper schedule with a slower taper schedule, no difference was observed between the groups in the proportion of patients who tapered to zero dose; however, the slower schedule was associated with a reduction in symptoms associated with a withdrawal syndrome. 2.4 Dosage Recommendations in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients, the recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam tablets is 0.25 mg, given 2 or 3 times daily. This may be gradually increased if needed and tolerated. Geriatric patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines. If adverse reactions occur at the recommended starting dosage, the dosage may be reduced [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.5 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment, the recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam tablets is 0.25 mg, given 2 or 3 times daily. This may be gradually increased if needed and tolerated. If adverse reactions occur at the recommended starting dose, the dosage may be reduced [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions Alprazolam tablets should be reduced to half of the recommended dosage when a patient is started on ritonavir and alprazolam tablets together, or when ritonavir administered to a patient treated with alprazolam tablets. Increase the alprazolam tablets dosage to the target dose after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam tablets together. It is not necessary to reduce alprazolam tablets dose in patients who have been taking ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days. Alprazolam tablets are contraindicated with concomitant use of all strong CYP3A inhibitors, except ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Alprazolam Tablets USP, 0.25 mg are white, oval shaped, uncoated tablets with breakline on one side debossed with ‘1’ and ‘8’ on either sides of the breakline and ‘Y’ on the other side. Bottles of 6 NDC 68071-3481-6

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 02840ea6-e4a0-96a0-e063-6394a90a19ae
