Name: Amantadine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of signs and symptoms of infection caused by various strains of influenza A virus. Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are also indicated in the treatment of parkinsonism and drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Influenza A Prophylaxis Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for chemoprophylaxis against signs and symptoms of influenza A virus infection. Because amantadine does not completely prevent the host immune response to influenza A infection, individuals who take this drug may still develop immune responses to natural disease or vaccination and may be protected when later exposed to antigenically related viruses. Following vaccination during an influenza A outbreak, amantadine prophylaxis should be considered for the 2- to 4-week time period required to develop an antibody response. Influenza A Treatment Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are also indicated in the treatment of uncomplicated respiratory tract illness caused by influenza A virus strains especially when administered early in the course of illness. There are no well-controlled clinical studies demonstrating that treatment with amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP will avoid the development of influenza A virus pneumonitis or other complications in high risk patients. There is no clinical evidence indicating that amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are effective in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral respiratory tract illnesses other than those caused by influenza A virus strains. The following points should be considered before initiating treatment or prophylaxis with amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP. • Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are not a substitute for early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. • Influenza viruses change over time. Emergence of resistance mutations could decrease drug effectiveness. Other factors (for example, changes in viral virulence) might also diminish clinical benefit of antiviral drugs. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP. Parkinson’s Disease/Syndrome Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (Paralysis Agitans), postencephalitic parkinsonism and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication. It is indicated in those elderly patients believed to develop parkinsonism in association with cerebral arteriosclerosis. In the treatment of Parkinson’s disease, amantadine is less effective than levodopa, (-)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-L-alanine, and its efficacy in comparison with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs has not yet been established. Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Amantadine hydrochloride, USP is indicated in the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Although anticholinergic-type side effects have been noted with amantadine when used in patients with drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions, there is a lower incidence of these side effects than that observed with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of amantadine hydrochloride capsules may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure, peripheral edema, orthostatic hypotension, or impaired renal function (see Dosage for Impaired Renal Function ).

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP 100 mg are soft gelatin capsule, opaque yellow oblong shape, which is imprinted with “P19” in Black ink. Capsules are free of surface stickiness and leaking. The fill materials are practically off-white to light yellow suspension and supplied as follows: NDC 42806-716-11 bottles of 10 capsules NDC 42806-716-05 bottles of 500 capsules Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP. WARNINGS Deaths Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine. The lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1 gram. Acute toxicity may be attributable to the anticholinergic effects of amantadine. Drug overdose has resulted in cardiac, respiratory, renal or central nervous system toxicity. Cardiac dysfunction includes arrhythmia, tachycardia and hypertension (see OVERDOSAGE ). Deaths due to drug accumulation (overdosage) have been reported in patients with renal impairment, who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of amantadine hydrochloride for their level of renal function [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dosage of Impaired Renal Function and OVERDOSAGE ]. Suicide Attempts Suicide attempts, some of which have been fatal, have been reported in patients treated with amantadine, many of whom received short courses for influenza treatment or prophylaxis. The incidence of suicide attempts is not known and the pathophysiologic mechanism is not understood. Suicide attempts and suicidal ideation have been reported in patients with and without prior history of psychiatric illness. Amantadine can exacerbate mental problems in patients with a history of psychiatric disorders or substance abuse. Patients who attempt suicide may exhibit abnormal mental states which include disorientation, confusion, depression, personality changes, agitation, aggressive behavior, hallucinations, paranoia, other psychotic reactions, and somnolence or insomnia. Because of the possibility of serious adverse effects, caution should be observed when prescribing amantadine hydrochloride capsules to patients being treated with drugs having CNS effects, or for whom the potential risks outweigh the benefit of treatment. CNS Effects Patients with a history of epilepsy or other “seizures” should be observed closely for possible increased seizure activity. Patients receiving amantadine hydrochloride who note central nervous system effects or blurring of vision should be cautioned against driving or working in situations where alertness and adequate motor coordination are important. Other Patients with a history of congestive heart failure or peripheral edema should be followed closely as there are patients who developed congestive heart failure while receiving amantadine hydrochloride. Patients with Parkinson’s disease improving on amantadine hydrochloride capsules should resume normal activities gradually and cautiously, consistent with other medical considerations, such as the presence of osteoporosis or phlebothrombosis. Because amantadine hydrochloride capsules has anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis, it should not be given to patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma. Corneal Edema Corneal edema has been reported in patients taking amantadine. Symptoms include sudden onset of blurry vision, or progressive vision loss, with or without eye pain. Corneal involvement is usually bilateral. Onset can occur from a few weeks to several years after starting amantadine. Resolution of symptoms typically begins within weeks of amantadine cessation. However, corneal grafts have been required in some patients when the condition is not recognized. Permanent damage can occur if amantadine is continued. Ask patients if their vision has changed and obtain ophthalmologic examinations to rule out corneal edema should vision changes occur after initiation of therapy with amantadine hydrochloride capsules. If corneal edema occurs, taper and discontinue amantadine hydrochloride capsules [see Dosage and Administration ].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0f70c79a-92a4-4a38-bbdd-900adc4c2e93
