Name: Amphetamine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amphetamine sulfate tablets are indicated for: Narcolepsy Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity as an integral part of a total treatment program which typically includes other remedial measures (psychological, educational, social) for a stabilizing effect in children with behavioral syndrome characterized by the following group of developmentally inappropriate symptoms: moderate to severe distractibility, short attention span, hyperactivity, emotional lability, and impulsivity. The diagnosis of the syndrome should not be made with finality when these symptoms are only of comparatively recent origin. Nonlocalizing (soft) neurological signs, learning disability, and abnormal EEG may or may not be present, and a diagnosis of central nervous system dysfunction may or not be warranted. Exogenous Obesity as a short-term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on caloric restriction for patients refractory to alternative therapy, e.g., repeated diets, group programs, and other drugs. The limited usefulness of amphetamines ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) should be weighed against possible risks inherent in use of the drug, such as those described below.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Regardless of indication, amphetamine should be administered at the lowest effective dosage and dosage should be individually adjusted. Late evening doses should be avoided because of resulting insomnia. Narcolepsy Usual dose is 5 to 60 milligrams per day in divided doses depending on the individual patient response. Narcolepsy seldom occurs in children under 12 years of age; however, when it does, amphetamine sulfate tablets may be used. The suggested initial dose for patients aged 6 to 12 is 5 mg daily; daily dose may be raised in increments of 5 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response obtained. In patients 12 years of age and older, start with 10 mg daily; daily dosage may be raised in increments of 10 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained. If bothersome adverse reactions appear (e.g., insomnia or anorexia) dosage should be reduced. Give the first dose on awakening; additional doses (5 or 10 mg) at intervals of 4 to 6 hours. Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity Not recommended for children under 3 years of age. In children from 3 to 5 years of age, start with 2.5 mg daily; daily dosage may be raised in increments of 2.5 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained. In children 6 years of age or older, start with 5 mg once or twice daily; daily dosage may be raised in increments of 5 mg at weekly intervals until optimal response is obtained. Only in rare cases will it be necessary to exceed a total of 40 milligrams per day. With tablets give first dose on awakening; additional doses (1 to 2) at intervals of 4 to 6 hours. Where possible, drug administration should be interrupted occasionally to determine if there is a recurrence of behavioral symptoms sufficient to require continued therapy. Prior to treating patients with amphetamine sulfate tablets assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) ( see WARNINGS ). the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome ( see WARNINGS ). Exogenous Obesity Usual dosage is up to 30 mg daily, taken in divided doses of 5 to 10 mg, 30 to 60 minutes before meals. Not recommended for this use in children under 12 years of age.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Amphetamine Sulfate Tablets USP are supplied as follows: 5 mg: White, round tablet, debossed "M" on one side, and "5" with a score on the other side in bottles of 100 tablets, NDC 0406-1219-01. 10 mg: Blue, round tablet, debossed "M" on one side, and "10" with double scores on the other side in bottles of 100 tablets, NDC 0406-1220-01. Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Dispense in a well-closed container, as defined in the USP. Mallinckrodt, the “M” brand mark and the Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals logo are trademarks of a Mallinckrodt company. © 2023 Mallinckrodt. Manufactured by: SpecGx LLC Webster Groves, MO 63119 USA Revised: 10/2023 Mallinckrodt™ Pharmaceuticals An electronic copy of this medication guide can be obtained from www.mallinckrodt.com/Medguide/MG20A13.pdf or by calling 1-800-778-7898 for alternate delivery options. WARNINGS Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction Amphetamine sulfate tablets have a high potential for abuse and misuse. The use of amphetamine sulfate tablets exposes individuals to the risks of abuse and misuse, which can lead to the development of a substance use disorder, including addiction. Amphetamine sulfate can be diverted for non-medical use into illicit channels or distribution ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Misuse and abuse of CNS stimulants, including amphetamine sulfate tablets, can result in overdose and death ( see OVERDOSAGE ), and this risk is increased with higher doses or unapproved methods of administration, such as snorting or injection. Before prescribing amphetamine sulfate tablets, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction. Educate patients and their families about these risks and proper disposal of any unused drug. Advise patients to store amphetamine sulfate in a safe place, preferably locked, and instruct patients to not give amphetamine sulfate tablets to anyone else. Throughout amphetamine sulfate tablets treatment, reassess each patient’s risk of abuse, misuse, and addiction and frequently monitor for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Risks to Patients with Serious Cardiac Disease Sudden death has been reported in patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious cardiac disease who are treated with CNS stimulants at the recommended ADHD dosages. Avoid amphetamine sulfate tablets use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities, cardiomyopathy, serious cardiac arrhythmia, coronary artery disease, or other serious cardiac disease. Increased Blood Pressure and Heart Rate CNS stimulants cause an increase in blood pressure (mean increase about 2 to 4 mm Hg) and heart rate (mean increase about 3 to 6 bpm). Monitor all patients for potential tachycardia and hypertension. Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Exacerbation of Pre-Existing Psychosis CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre-existing psychotic disorder. Induction of a Manic Episode in Patients with Bipolar Disorder CNS stimulants may induce a manic or mixed episode in patients. Prior to initiating amphetamine sulfate tablets, screen patients for risk factors for developing a manic episode (e.g., comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, or depression). New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms CNS stimulants, at recommended doses, may cause psychotic or manic symptoms (e.g., hallucinations, delusional thinking, or mania) in patients without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania. In a pooled analysis of multiple short-term, placebo-controlled studies of CNS stimulants, psychotic or manic symptoms occurred in approximately 0.1% of CNS stimulant-treated patients, compared with 0% of placebo-treated patients. If such symptoms occur, consider discontinuing amphetamine sulfate tablets. Long-Term Suppression of Growth in Pediatric Patients CNS stimulants have been associated with weight loss and slowing of growth rate in pediatric patients. Closely monitor growth (weight and height) in amphetamine sulfate tablets-treated pediatric patients treated with CNS stimulants. Pediatric patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted ( see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Seizures There is some clinical evidence that stimulants may lower the convulsive threshold in patients with prior history of seizures, in patients with prior EEG abnormalities in absence of seizures, and, very rarely, in patients without a history of seizures and no prior EEG evidence of seizures. In the presence of seizures, the drug should be discontinued. Peripheral Vasculopathy, Including Raynaud's Phenomenon Stimulants, including amphetamine sulfate tablets, used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy, including Raynaud’s phenomenon. Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild; however, very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and/or soft tissue breakdown. Effects of peripheral vasculopathy, including Raynaud’s phenomenon, were observed in post-marketing reports and at the therapeutic dosages of CNS stimulants in all age groups throughout the course of treatment. Signs and symptoms generally improved after dosage reduction or discontinuation of the CNS stimulant. Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during amphetamine sulfate tablets treatment. Further clinical evaluation (e.g., rheumatology referral) may be appropriate for patients who develop signs or symptoms of peripheral vasculopathy. Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening reaction, may occur when amphetamines are used in combination with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John’s Wort ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ). The co-administration with cytochrome P450 (CYP2D6) inhibitors may also increase the risk with increased exposure to amphetamine sulfate tablets. In these situations, consider an alternative non-serotonergic drug or an alternative drug that does not inhibit CYP2D6 ( see DRUG INTERACTIONS ). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Concomitant use of amphetamine sulfate tablets with MAOI drugs is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Discontinue treatment with amphetamine sulfate tablets and any concomitant serotonergic agents immediately if the above symptoms occur, and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment. If concomitant use of amphetamine sulfate tablets with other serotonergic drugs or CYP2D6 inhibitors is clinically warranted, initiate amphetamine sulfate tablets with lower doses, monitor patients for the emergence of serotonin syndrome during drug initiation or titration, and inform patients of the increased risk for serotonin syndrome. Motor and Verbal Tics, and Worsening of Tourette’s Syndrome CNS stimulants, including amphetamine sulfate, have been associated with the onset or exacerbation of motor and verbal tics. Worsening of Tourette’s syndrome has also been reported. Assess the family history and clinically evaluate patients for tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating amphetamine sulfate tablets. Regularly monitor patients for the emergence or worsening of tics or Tourette’s syndrome with amphetamine sulfate tablets, and discontinue treatment if clinically appropriate.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 00242264-40d8-4267-a91a-727a1f088616
