Name: Arformoterol

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is a long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (beta 2 -agonist) indicated for: Long-term, twice daily (morning and evening) administration in the maintenance treatment of bronchoconstriction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. ( 1.1 ) Important limitations of use: Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is not indicated to treat acute deteriorations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. ( 1.2 , 5.2 ) Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is not indicated to treat asthma. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Maintenance Treatment of COPD Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is indicated for the long-term, twice daily (morning and evening) maintenance treatment of bronchoconstriction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is for use by nebulization only. 1.2 Important Limitations of Use Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is not indicated to treat acute deteriorations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is not indicated to treat asthma. The safety and effectiveness of arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution in asthma have not been established.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is one 15 mcg unit-dose ampule administered twice daily (morning and evening) by nebulization. A total daily dose of greater than 30 mcg (15 mcg twice daily) is not recommended. Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution should be administered by the orally inhaled route via a standard jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor (see the accompanying Patient Information ). Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution should not be swallowed. Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution should be stored refrigerated in foil pouches. After opening the pouch, unused unit-dose ampules should be returned to, and stored in, the pouch. An opened unit-dose ampule should be used right away. If the recommended maintenance treatment regimen fails to provide the usual response, medical advice should be sought immediately, as this is often a sign of destabilization of COPD. Under these circumstances, the therapeutic regimen should be reevaluated and additional therapeutic options should be considered. No dose adjustment is required for patients with renal or hepatic impairment. However, since the clearance of arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is prolonged in patients with hepatic impairment, they should be monitored closely. The drug compatibility (physical and chemical), efficacy, and safety of arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established. The safety and efficacy of arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution have been established in clinical trials when administered using the PARI LC ® Plus nebulizer (with a face mask or mouthpiece) and the PARI DURA NEB™ 3000 compressor. The safety and efficacy of arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution delivered from non-compressor based nebulizer systems have not been established. For oral inhalation only. A total daily dose of greater than 30 mcg is not recommended. ( 2 ) One 15 mcg/2 mL ampule every 12 hours. ( 2 ) For use with a standard jet nebulizer (with a face mask or mouthpiece) connected to an air compressor. ( 2 )

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is supplied in a single strength (15 mcg of arformoterol, equivalent to 22 mcg of arformoterol tartrate) as 2 mL of a sterile clear, colorless solution in low-density polyethylene (LDPE) unit-dose ampule overwrapped in foil. Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution is available in a shelf-carton containing 30 or 60 unit-dose ampules. NDC 0093-5955-56: carton of 30 individually pouched unit-dose ampules. NDC 0093-5955-06: carton of 60 unit-dose ampules (12 x 5 unit‐dose ampule pouches). Storage and Handling Store arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution in the protective foil pouch under refrigeration at 36° to 46°F (2° to 8°C). Protect from light and excessive heat. After opening the pouch, unused unit-dose ampules should be returned to, and stored in, the pouch. An opened unit-dose ampule should be used right away. Discard any unit-dose ampule if the solution is not colorless. Unopened foil pouches of arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution can also be stored at room temperature 68° to 77°F (20° to 25°C) for up to 6 weeks. If stored at room temperature, discard if not used after 6 weeks or if past the expiration date, whichever is sooner.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 07210cd5-679f-4834-8b77-724583e4c9c8
