Name: Atazanavir

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE REYATAZ ® is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and in pediatric patients 3 months and older weighing at least 5 kg. Limitations of Use: • REYATAZ is not recommended for use in pediatric patients below the age of 3 months due to the risk of kernicterus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . • Use of REYATAZ with ritonavir in treatment-experienced patients should be guided by the number of baseline primary protease inhibitor resistance substitutions [see Microbiology (12.4) ] . REYATAZ is a protease inhibitor indicated for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and in pediatric patients 3 months and older weighing at least 5 kg. (1)

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pretreatment testing: Renal laboratory testing should be performed in all patients prior to initiation of REYATAZ and continued during treatment with REYATAZ. Hepatic testing should be performed in patients with underlying liver disease prior to initiation of REYATAZ and continued during treatment with REYATAZ. (2.2) • Treatment-naive adults: REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food or REYATAZ 400 mg once daily with food. (2.3) • Treatment-experienced adults: REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food. (2.3) • Pediatric patients: REYATAZ capsule dosage is based on body weight not to exceed the adult dose and must be taken with food. (2.4) • REYATAZ oral powder: Must be taken with ritonavir and food and should not be used in pediatric patients who weigh less than 5 kg. (2.5) • Pregnancy: REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily with food, with dosing modifications for some concomitant medications. (2.6) • Dosing modifications: may be required for concomitant therapy ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6) , renal impairment (2.7) , and hepatic impairment. (2.8) 2.1 Overview • REYATAZ capsules and oral powder must be taken with food. • Do not open the capsules. • The recommended oral dosage of REYATAZ depends on the treatment history of the patient and the use of other coadministered drugs. When coadministered with H 2 -receptor antagonists or proton-pump inhibitors, dose separation may be required [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , and 2.6 ) and Drug Interactions (7) ] . • REYATAZ capsules without ritonavir are not recommended for treatment-experienced adult or pediatric patients with prior virologic failure [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . • REYATAZ oral powder must be taken with ritonavir and is not recommended for use in children who weigh less than 5 kg [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . • Efficacy and safety of REYATAZ with ritonavir when ritonavir is administered in doses greater than 100 mg once daily have not been established. The use of higher ritonavir doses may alter the safety profile of atazanavir (cardiac effects, hyperbilirubinemia) and, therefore, is not recommended. Prescribers should consult the complete prescribing information for ritonavir when using ritonavir. 2.2 Testing Prior to Initiation and During Treatment with REYATAZ Renal laboratory testing should be performed in all patients prior to initiation of REYATAZ and continued during treatment with REYATAZ. Renal laboratory testing should include serum creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance, and urinalysis with microscopic examination [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5 , 5.6) ] . Hepatic laboratory testing should be performed in patients with underlying liver disease prior to initiation of REYATAZ and continued during treatment with REYATAZ [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 2.3 Dosage of REYATAZ in Adult Patients Table 1 displays the recommended dosage of REYATAZ capsules in treatment-naive and treatment-experienced adults. Table 1 also displays recommended dosage of REYATAZ and ritonavir when given concomitantly with other antiretroviral drugs and H 2 -receptor antagonists (H2RA). Ritonavir is required with several REYATAZ dosage regimens (see the ritonavir complete prescribing information about the safe and effective use of ritonavir). The use of REYATAZ in treatment-experienced adult patients without ritonavir is not recommended. Table 1: Recommended REYATAZ and Ritonavir Dosage in Adults a,b a See Drug Interactions (7) for instructions concerning coadministration of acid-reducing medications (eg, H2RA or proton pump inhibitors [PPIs]), and other antiretroviral drugs (eg, efavirenz, tenofovir DF, and didanosine). b For adult patients who cannot swallow the capsules, REYATAZ oral powder is taken once daily with food at the same recommended adult dosage as the capsules along with ritonavir. REYATAZ Once Daily Dosage Ritonavir Once Daily Dosage Treatment-Naive Adult Patients recommended regimen 300 mg 100 mg unable to tolerate ritonavir 400 mg N/A in combination with efavirenz 400 mg 100 mg Treatment-Experienced Adult Patients recommended regimen 300 mg 100 mg in combination with both H2RA and tenofovir DF 400 mg 100 mg 2.4 Dosage of REYATAZ Capsules in Pediatric Patients The recommended daily dosage of REYATAZ capsules and ritonavir in pediatric patients (6 years of age to less than 18 years of age) is based on body weight (see Table 2). Table 2: Recommended Dosage of REYATAZ Capsules and Ritonavir in Pediatric Patients (6 to less than 18 years of age) a,b a Administer REYATAZ capsules and ritonavir simultaneously with food. b The same recommendations regarding the timing and maximum doses of concomitant PPIs and H2RAs in adults also apply to pediatric patients. See Drug Interactions (7) for instructions concerning coadministration of acid-reducing medications (eg, H2RA or PPIs), and other antiretroviral drugs (eg, efavirenz, tenofovir DF, and didanosine). c In treatment-experienced patients, REYATAZ capsules must be administered with ritonavir. Body weight REYATAZ Daily Dosage Ritonavir Daily Dosage Treatment-Naive and Treatment-Experienced c Less than 15 kg Capsules not recommended N/A At least 15 kg to less than 35 kg 200 mg 100 mg At least 35 kg 300 mg 100 mg Treatment-Naive, at least 13 years old and cannot tolerate ritonavir At least 40 kg 400 mg N/A When transitioning between formulations, a change in dose may be needed. Consult the dosing table for the specific formulation. 2.5 Dosage and Administration of REYATAZ Oral Powder in Pediatric Patients REYATAZ oral powder is for use in treatment-naive or treatment-experienced pediatric patients who are at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg. REYATAZ oral powder must be mixed with food or a beverage for administration and ritonavir must be given immediately afterwards. Table 3 displays the recommended dosage of REYATAZ oral powder and ritonavir. Table 3: Recommended Dosage of REYATAZ Oral Powder and Ritonavir in Pediatric Patients (at least 3 months of age and weighing at least 5 kg) a,b a The same recommendations regarding the timing and maximum doses of concomitant PPIs and H2RAs in adults also apply to pediatric patients. See Drug Interactions (7) for instructions concerning coadministration of acid-reducing medications (eg, H2RA or PPIs), and other antiretroviral drugs (eg, efavirenz, tenofovir DF, and didanosine). b For pediatric patients at least 25 kg who cannot swallow REYATAZ capsules, 300 mg (6 packets) REYATAZ oral powder is taken once daily with food along with 100 mg ritonavir. c Only patients weighing 5 to less than 10 kg who do not tolerate the 200 mg (4 packets) dose of REYATAZ oral powder and have not previously taken an HIV protease inhibitor, may take 150 mg (3 packets) REYATAZ oral powder with close HIV viral load monitoring. d Each packet contains 50 mg of REYATAZ. Body Weight Daily Dosage of REYATAZ Oral Powder Daily Dosage of Ritonavir Oral Solution 5 kg to less than 15 kg 200 mg (4 packets) c,d 80 mg 15 kg to less than 25 kg 250 mg (5 packets) d 80 mg When transitioning between formulations, a change in dose may be needed. Consult the dosing table for the specific formulation. Instructions for Mixing REYATAZ Oral Powder [see FDA-approved Instructions for Use] • Determine the number of packets (3, 4, 5 or 6 packets) that are needed. • Prior to mixing, tap the packet to settle the powder. • It is preferable to mix REYATAZ oral powder with food such as applesauce or yogurt. Mixing REYATAZ oral powder with a beverage (milk, infant formula, or water) may be used for infants who can drink from a cup. For young infants (less than 6 months) who cannot eat solid food or drink from a cup, REYATAZ oral powder should be mixed with infant formula and given using an oral dosing syringe. Administration of REYATAZ and infant formula using an infant bottle is not recommended because full dose may not be delivered. • Use a clean pair of scissors to cut each packet along the dotted line. • Mixing with food: Using a spoon, mix the recommended number of REYATAZ oral powder packets with a minimum of one tablespoon of food (such as applesauce or yogurt). Feed the mixture to the infant or young child. Add an additional one tablespoon of food to the small container, mix, and feed the child the residual mixture. • Mixing with a beverage such as milk or water in a small drinking cup: Using a spoon, mix the recommended number of REYATAZ oral powder packets with a minimum of 30 mL of the beverage. Have the child drink the mixture. Add an additional 15 mL more of beverage to the drinking cup, mix, and have the child drink the residual mixture. If water is used, food should also be taken at the same time. • Mixing with liquid infant formula using an oral dosing syringe and a small medicine cup: Using a spoon, mix the recommended number of REYATAZ oral powder packets with 10 mL of prepared liquid infant formula. Draw up the full amount of the mixture into an oral syringe and administer into either right or left inner cheek of infant. Pour another 10 mL of formula into the medicine cup to rinse off remaining REYATAZ oral powder in cup. Draw up residual mixture into the syringe and administer into either right or left inner cheek of infant. • Administer ritonavir immediately following REYATAZ powder administration. • Administer the entire dosage of REYATAZ oral powder (mixed in the food or beverage) within one hour of preparation [may leave the mixture at a temperature of 68°F to 86°F (20°C to 30°C) for up to one hour]. Ensure that the patient eats or drinks all the food or beverage that contains the powder. Additional food may be given after consumption of the entire mixture. 2.6 Dosage Adjustments in Pregnant Patients Table 4 includes the recommended dosage of REYATAZ capsules and ritonavir in treatment-naive and treatment-experienced pregnant patients. In these patients, REYATAZ must be administered with ritonavir. There are no dosage adjustments for postpartum patients (see Table 1 for the recommended REYATAZ dosage in adults) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Table 4: Recommended Dosage of REYATAZ and Ritonavir in Pregnant Patients a a See Drug Interactions (7) for instructions concerning coadministration of acid-reducing medications (eg, H2RA or PPIs), and other antiretroviral drugs (eg, efavirenz, tenofovir DF, and didanosine). b REYATAZ is not recommended for treatment-experienced pregnant patients during the second and third trimester taking REYATAZ with BOTH tenofovir DF and H2RA. REYATAZ Once Daily Dosage Ritonavir Once Daily Dosage Treatment-Naive and Treatment-Experienced Recommended Regimen 300 mg 100 mg Treatment-Experienced During the Second or Third Trimester When Coadministered with either H2RA or Tenofovir DF b In combination with EITHER H2RA OR tenofovir DF 400 mg 100 mg 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with renal impairment, including those with severe renal impairment who are not managed with hemodialysis, no dose adjustment is required for REYATAZ. Treatment-naive patients with end-stage renal disease managed with hemodialysis should receive REYATAZ 300 mg with ritonavir 100 mg. REYATAZ is not recommended in treatment-experienced patients with HIV-1 who have end-stage renal disease managed with hemodialysis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.8 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Table 5 displays the recommended REYATAZ dosage in treatment-naive patients with hepatic impairment. The use of REYATAZ in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) is not recommended. The coadministration of REYATAZ with ritonavir in patients with any degree of hepatic impairment is not recommended. Table 5: Recommended Dosage of REYATAZ Capsules in Treatment-Naive Adults with Hepatic Impairment REYATAZ Once Daily Dosage Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A) 400 mg Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B) 300 mg Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) REYATAZ with or without ritonavir is not recommended

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING REYATAZ Capsules REYATAZ ® (atazanavir) capsules are available in the following strengths and configurations of plastic bottles with child-resistant closures. * 200 mg atazanavir equivalent to 227.8 mg atazanavir sulfate. 300 mg atazanavir equivalent to 341.69 mg atazanavir sulfate. Product Strength* Capsule Shell Color (cap/body) Markings on Capsule (ink color) Capsules per Bottle NDC Number cap body 200 mg blue/blue BMS 200 mg (white) 3631 (white) 60 0003-3631-12 300 mg red/blue BMS 300 mg (white) 3622 (white) 30 0003-3622-12 Keep capsules in a tightly closed container. Store REYATAZ capsules at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. REYATAZ Oral Powder REYATAZ oral powder is an orange-vanilla flavored powder, packed in child-resistant packets. Each packet contains 50 mg of atazanavir equivalent to 56.9 mg of atazanavir sulfate in 1.5 g of powder. REYATAZ oral powder is supplied in cartons (NDC 0003-3638-10) of 30 packets each. [See Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Store REYATAZ oral powder at a temperature of 68°F to 86°F (20°C to 30°C). Store REYATAZ oral powder in the original packet. Do not open until ready to use. After REYATAZ oral powder is mixed with food or liquid, it may be kept at a temperature 68°F to 86°F (20°C to 30°C) for up to 1 hour. Take REYATAZ oral powder within 1 hour after mixing with food or liquid.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 165cff62-b284-4a27-a65d-9ec8a5bfcdd8
