Name: Auranofin

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE RIDAURA (auranofin) is indicated in the management of adults with active classical or definite rheumatoid arthritis (ARA criteria) who have had an insufficient therapeutic response to, or are intolerant of, an adequate trial of full doses of one or more nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. RIDAURA should be added to a comprehensive baseline program, including non-drug therapies. Unlike anti-inflammatory drugs, RIDAURA does not produce an immediate response. Therapeutic effects may be seen after three to four months of treatment, although improvement has not been seen in some patients before six months. When cartilage and bone damage has already occurred, gold cannot reverse structural damage to joints caused by previous disease. The greatest potential benefit occurs in patients with active synovitis, particularly in its early stage. In controlled clinical trials comparing RIDAURA with injectable gold, RIDAURA was associated with fewer dropouts due to adverse reactions, while injectable gold was associated with fewer dropouts for inadequate or poor therapeutic effect. Physicians should consider these findings when deciding on the use of RIDAURA in patients who are candidates for chrysotherapy.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage: The usual adult dosage of RIDAURA (auranofin) is 6 mg daily, given either as 3 mg twice daily or 6 mg once daily. Initiation of therapy at dosages exceeding 6 mg daily is not recommended because it is associated with an increased incidence of diarrhea. If response is inadequate after six months, an increase to 9 mg (3 mg three times daily) may be tolerated. If response remains inadequate after a three-month trial of 9 mg daily, RIDAURA therapy should be discontinued. Safety at dosages exceeding 9 mg daily has not been studied. Transferring from Injectable Gold: In controlled clinical studies, patients on injectable gold have been transferred to RIDAURA (auranofin) by discontinuing the injectable agent and starting oral therapy with RIDAURA, 6 mg daily. When patients are transferred to RIDAURA, they should be informed of its adverse reaction profile, in particular the gastrointestinal reactions. (See PRECAUTIONS— Information for Patients .) At six months, control of disease activity of patients transferred to RIDAURA and those maintained on the injectable agent was not different. Data beyond six months are not available.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Capsules, containing 3 mg auranofin, in bottles of 60. NDC 54766-093-06 STORAGE AND HANDLING Store between 15° and 30°C (59° and 86°F). Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container. ©2018 Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc. All rights reserved. RIDAURA is a registered trademark of Sebela International Limited Distributed by: Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc. 645 Hembree Parkway, Suite I Roswell, Georgia 30076 www.sebelapharma.com Toll Free 1-844-732-3521 Revised October 2017 PI 09306001 WARNINGS Danger signs of possible gold toxicity include fall in hemoglobin, leukopenia below 4,000 WBC/cu mm, granulocytes below 1,500/cu mm, decrease in platelets below 150,000/cu mm, proteinuria, hematuria, pruritus, rash, stomatitis or persistent diarrhea. Thrombocytopenia has occurred in 1–3% of patients (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) treated with RIDAURA (auranofin), some of whom developed bleeding. The thrombocytopenia usually appears to be peripheral in origin and is usually reversible upon withdrawal of RIDAURA. Its onset bears no relationship to the duration of RIDAURA therapy and its course may be rapid. While patients' platelet counts should normally be monitored at least monthly (See PRECAUTIONS— Laboratory Tests ), the occurrence of a precipitous decline in platelets or a platelet count less than 100,000/cu mm or signs and symptoms (e.g., purpura, ecchymoses or petechiae) suggestive of thrombocytopenia indicates a need to immediately withdraw RIDAURA and other therapies with the potential to cause thrombocytopenia, and to obtain additional platelet counts. No additional RIDAURA should be given unless the thrombocytopenia resolves and further studies show it was not due to gold therapy. Proteinuria has developed in 3-9% of patients (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) treated with RIDAURA. If clinically significant proteinuria or microscopic hematuria is found (See PRECAUTIONS— Laboratory Tests ), RIDAURA and other therapies with the potential to cause proteinuria or microscopic hematuria should be stopped immediately.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 43ba3de1-ab2e-06f6-e054-00144ff8d46c
