Name: Azacitidine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Azacitidine for injection is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: Adult patients with the following FAB myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) subtypes: Refractory anemia (RA) or refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts (RARS) (if accompanied by neutropenia or thrombocytopenia or requiring transfusions), refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB), refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation (RAEB-T), and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMMoL). ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) Azacitidine for injection is indicated for treatment of adult patients with the following French-American-British (FAB) myelodysplastic syndrome subtypes: refractory anemia (RA) or refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts (if accompanied by neutropenia or thrombocytopenia or requiring transfusions), refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB), refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation (RAEB-T), and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMMoL). Pediatric use information is approved for Celgene Corporation's Vidaza (azacitidine for injection). However, due to Celgene Corporation's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Do not substitute Azacitidine for injection for oral azacitidine. The indications and dosing regimen for Azacitidine for injection differ from that of oral azacitidine ( 2.1 , 5.1 ). MDS: The recommended starting dosage for the first treatment cycle, for all patients regardless of baseline hematology values, is Azacitidine for injection 75 mg/m 2 daily for 7 days to be administered by subcutaneous injection or intravenous infusion. See full prescribing information for schedule for subsequent cycles. Premedicate for nausea and vomiting ( 2.2 ). Continue treatment as long as the patient continues to benefit ( 2.3 ). Monitor all patients for hematologic response and for renal toxicity; delay or reduce dosage as appropriate ( 2.3 , 2.6 , 2.7 ). 2.1 Important Administration Information Do not substitute Azacitidine for injection for oral azacitidine. The indications and dosing regimen for Azacitidine for injection differ from that of oral azacitidine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] 2.2 First Treatment Cycle for Adults The recommended starting dose for the first treatment cycle, for all patients regardless of baseline hematology laboratory values, is 75 mg/m 2 subcutaneously or intravenously, daily for 7 days. Premedicate patients for nausea and vomiting. Obtain complete blood counts, liver chemistries and serum creatinine prior to the first dose. 2.3 Subsequent Treatment Cycles for Adults Repeat cycles every 4 weeks. The dose may be increased to 100 mg/m 2 if no beneficial effect is seen after 2 treatment cycles and if no toxicity other than nausea and vomiting has occurred. It is recommended that patients be treated for a minimum of 4 to 6 cycles. However, complete or partial response may require additional treatment cycles. Treatment may be continued as long as the patient continues to benefit. Monitor patients for hematologic response and renal toxicities [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ], and delay or reduce dosage if necessary [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Pediatric use information is approved for Celgene Corporation's Vidaza (azacitidine for injection). However, due to Celgene Corporation's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.5 Dosage Adjustment Based on Hematology Laboratory Values For adult patients with baseline (start of treatment) WBC greater than or equal to 3x10 9 /L, ANC greater than or equal to 1.5x10 9 /L, and platelets greater than or equal to 75x10 9 /L, adjust the dose as follows, based on nadir counts for any given cycle: Nadir Counts % Dose in the Next Course ANC (x10 9 /L) Platelets (x10 9 /L) Less than 0.5 Less than 25 50% 0.5 –1.5 25-50 67% Greater than 1.5 Greater than 50 100% For adult patients whose baseline counts are WBC less than 3 x 10 9 /L, ANC less than 1.5 x10 9 /L, or platelets less than 75 x 10 9 /L, base dose adjustments on nadir counts and bone marrow biopsy cellularity at the time of the nadir as noted below, unless there is clear improvement in differentiation (percentage of mature granulocytes is higher and ANC is higher than at onset of that course) at the time of the next cycle, in which case continue the current dose. WBC or Platelet Nadir % decrease in counts from baseline Bone Marrow Biopsy Cellularity at Time of Nadir (%) 30-60 15-30 Less than15 % Dose in the Next Course 50-75 100 50 33 Greater than 75 75 50 33 If a nadir as defined in the table above has occurred, give the next course 28 days after the start of the preceding course, provided that both the WBC and the platelet counts are greater than 25% above the nadir and rising. If a greater than 25% increase above the nadir is not seen by day 28, reassess counts every 7 days. If a 25% increase is not seen by day 42, reduce the scheduled dose by 50%. Pediatric use information is approved for Celgene Corporation's Vidaza (azacitidine for injection). However, due to Celgene Corporation's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.6 Dosage Adjustment Based on Serum Electrolytes and Renal Toxicity If unexplained reductions in serum bicarbonate levels to less than 20 mEq/L occur, reduce the dosage by 50% for the next course. Similarly, if unexplained elevations of BUN or serum creatinine occur, delay the next cycle until values return to normal or baseline and reduce the dose by 50% for the next course [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 2.7 Use in Geriatric Patients Azacitidine and its metabolites are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, select the dose carefully and monitor renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. 2.8 Preparation of Azacitidine for Injection Azacitidine for injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1 The Azacitidine for injection vial is single-dose and does not contain any preservatives. Discard unused portions of each vial properly [ see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. Do not save any unused portions for later administration. 2.9 Instructions for Subcutaneous Administration Reconstitute Azacitidine for injection aseptically with 4 mL Sterile Water for Injection, USP to obtain a concentration of 25 mg/mL. Inject the diluent slowly into the vial. Vigorously shake or roll the vial until a uniform suspension is achieved. The suspension will be cloudy. Do not filter the suspension after reconstitution. Doing so could remove the active substance. Preparation for Immediate Subcutaneous Administration : For doses requiring more than 1 vial, divide the dose equally between the syringes (e.g., dose 150 mg = 6 mL, 2 syringes with 3 mL in each syringe) and inject into two separate sites. Due to retention in the vial and needle, it may not be feasible to withdraw all of the suspension from the vial. The product may be held at room temperature for up to 1 hour, but must be administered within 1 hour after reconstitution. Preparation for Delayed Subcutaneous Administration : The reconstituted product may be kept in the vial or drawn into a syringe. For doses requiring more than 1 vial, divide the dose equally between the syringes (e.g., dose 150 mg = 6 mL, 2 syringes with 3 mL in each syringe) and inject into two separate sites. Due to retention in the vial and needle, it may not be feasible to withdraw all of the suspension from the vial. The product must be refrigerated immediately. See Table 2 for suspension stability storage timelines based on the temperature of the diluent for delayed subcutaneous administration. After removal from refrigerated conditions, the suspension may be allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for up to 30 minutes prior to administration. Subcutaneous Administration To provide a homogeneous suspension, the contents of the dosing syringe must be re-suspended immediately prior to administration. To re-suspend, vigorously roll the syringe between the palms until a uniform, cloudy suspension is achieved. Azacitidine for injection suspension is administered subcutaneously. Rotate sites for each injection (thigh, abdomen, or upper arm). New injections should be given at least one inch from an old site and never into areas where the site is tender, bruised, red, or hard. Table 2 Suspension Stability : Storage timelines based on the temperature of the diluent for suspension stability storage: Suspension Stability Storage timelines Diluent Storage Temperature/Duration Room temperature (25°C / 77°F) Sterile Water for Injection, USP Store at room temperature at 25°C (77°F) for up to 1 hour or refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) for up to 8 hours. Cold (2°C to 8°C / 36°F to 46°F) Sterile Water for Injection, USP Store refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) for up to 22 hours. 2.10 Instructions for Intravenous Administration Parenteral drug product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use the product if there is evidence of particulate matter or discoloration. Adult Patients with MDS Reconstitute the appropriate number of Azacitidine for injection vials to achieve the desired dose. Reconstitute each vial with 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection, USP. Vigorously shake or roll the vial until all solids are dissolved. The resulting solution will contain azacitidine 10 mg/mL. The solution should be clear. Withdraw the required amount of Azacitidine for injection solution to deliver the desired dose and inject into a 50 -100 mL infusion bag of either 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP. Intravenous Solution Incompatibility Azacitidine for injection is incompatible with 5% Dextrose Injection, USP solutions, Hespan, or solutions that contain bicarbonate. These solutions have the potential to increase the rate of degradation of Azacitidine for injection and should therefore be avoided. Intravenous Administration Azacitidine for injection solution is administered intravenously. Administer the total dose over a period of 10 - 40 minutes. The administration must be completed within 1 hour of reconstitution of the Azacitidine for injection vial. Solution Stability : Azacitidine for injection reconstituted and diluted for intravenous administration may be stored at 25°C (77°F), but administration must be completed within 1 hour of reconstitution. Pediatric use information is approved for Celgene Corporation's Vidaza (azacitidine for injection). However, due to Celgene Corporation's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Azacitidine for injection is supplied as a lyophilized powder in 100 mg single-dose vials packaged in cartons of 1 vial (NDC 83774-102-01). Storage Store unreconstituted vials at 25º C (77º F); excursions permitted to 15º-30º C (59º-86º F) (See USP Controlled Room Temperature). Handling and Disposal Azacitidine for injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0095c67b-42f3-47e6-92db-f77843727bca
