Name: Benazepril

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mm Hg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in Black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics. Benazepril hydrochloride is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult Patients: Initiate with 10 mg once daily (or 5 mg if patient is on diuretic). Titrate to 40 mg daily based on blood pressure response. ( 2.1 ) • Pediatric patients age 6 years and above with glomerular filtration rate (GFR) >30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 : Initiate with 0.2 mg/kg once daily. Maximum dose is 0.6 mg/kg once daily. • Renal Impairment: Initiate with 5 mg once daily in patients with GFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine >3 mg/dL) ( 2 .2) 2.1 Recommended Dosage ADULTS The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 10 mg once a day. The usual maintenance dosage range is 20 to 40 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses. A dose of 80 mg gives an increased response, but experience with this dose is limited. The divided regimen was more effective in controlling trough (pre-dosing) blood pressure than the same dose given as a once-daily regimen. Use with diuretics in adults The recommended starting dose of benazepril hydrochloride tablets in a patient on a diuretic is 5 mg once daily. If blood pressure is not controlled with benazepril hydrochloride alone, a low dose of diuretic may be added. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS 6 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients is 0.2 mg/kg once per day. Titrate as needed to 0.6 mg/kg once per day. Doses above 0.6 mg/kg (or in excess of 40 mg daily) have not been studied in pediatric patients. Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with GFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. )]. 2.2 Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment For adults with a GFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine > 3 mg/dL), the recommended initial dose is 5 mg benazepril hydrochloride tablets once daily. Dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of 40 mg. Benazepril hydrochloride tablets can also worsen renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 2.3 Preparation of Suspension (for 150 mL of a 2 mg/mL Suspension) Add 75 mL of Ora-Plus®* oral suspending vehicle to an amber polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle containing fifteen benazepril hydrochloride 20 mg tablets, and shake for at least two minutes. Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour. After the standing time, shake the suspension for a minimum of one additional minute. Add 75 mL of Ora-Sweet®* oral syrup vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension to disperse the ingredients. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2°to8°C (36°to46°F) and can be stored for up to 30 days in the PET bottle with a child-resistant screw-cap closure. Shake the suspension before each use. *Ora-Plus® and Ora-Sweet® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. Ora Plus® contains carrageenan, citric acid, methylparaben, microcrystalline cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose sodium, potassium sorbate, simethicone, sodium phosphate monobasic, xanthan gum, and water. Ora-Sweet® contains citric acid, berry citrus flavorant, glycerin, methylparaben, potassium sorbate, sodium phosphate monobasic, sorbitol, sucrose, and water.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Benazepril hydrochloride tablets, USP, 5 mg, are round, white, film-coated tablets, debossed “S” on one side and “341” on the other side, packaged as follows: NDC 68788-6889-3 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 68788-6889-6 bottle of 60 tablets NDC 68788-6889-9 bottle of 90 tablets NDC 68788-6889-1 bottle of 100 tablets NDC 68788-6889-8 bottle of 120 tablets Store at 20-25°C (68-77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture. Dispense in tight container (USP).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 01a3c9f6-41aa-47a7-8c56-5462c6b54416
