Name: Benzphetamine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the management of exogenous obesity as a short term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on caloric restriction in patients with an initial body mass index (BMI) of 30 kg/m2 or higher who have not responded to appropriate weight reducing regimen (diet and/or exercise) alone. Below is a chart of Body Mass Index (BMI) based on various heights and weights. BMI is calculated by taking the patient's weight, in kilograms (kg), divided by the patient's height, in meters (m), squared. Metric conversions are as follows: pounds ÷2.2 = kg; inches × 0.0254 = meters. The limited usefulness of agents of this class (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) should be weighed against possible risks inherent in their use such as those described below. Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for use as monotherapy only. BMI Table

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized according to the response of the patient. The suggested dosage ranges from 25 to 50 mg one to three times daily. Treatment should begin with 25 to 50 mg once daily with subsequent increase in individual dose or frequency according to response. A single daily dose is preferably given in mid-morning or mid-afternoon, according to the patient’s eating habits. In an occasional patient it may be desirable to avoid late afternoon administration. Use of benzphetamine hydrochloride is not recommended in individuals under 17 years of age.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are available as follows: Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets, 50 mg are supplied as peach, round, biconvex, film coated tablets debossed with “K” on left of the score and the number “40” debossed right of the score and plain on other side. Bottles of 30 NDC 10702-040-03 Bottles of 100 NDC 10702-040-01 Bottles of 500 NDC 10702-040-50 Bottles of 1000 NDC 10702-040-10 Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP, with a child-resistant closure (as required). Store at 20° to 25°C with excursions permitted between 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Rx only Manufactured by: KVK-Tech, INC. 110 Terry Dr. Suite 200 Newtown, PA 18940-1850 Item ID # 6077/05 01/2021 Manufacturer’s Code: 10702 company logo WARNINGS Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets should not be used in combination with other anorectic agents, including prescribed drugs, over-the-counter preparations and herbal products. In a case-control epidemiological study, the use of anorectic agents was associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary hypertension, a rare, but often fatal disorder. The use of anorectic agents for longer than three months was associated with a 23-fold increase in the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension. Increased risk of pulmonary hypertension with repeated courses of therapy cannot be excluded. It should be noted that benzphetamine was not specifically studied in this case-control study. The onset or aggravation of exertional dyspnea, or unexplained symptoms of angina pectoris, syncope, or lower extremity edema suggest the possibility of occurrence of pulmonary hypertension. Under these circumstances, Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets should be immediately discontinued, and the patient should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension. Valvular heart disease associated with the use of some anorectic agents such as fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine has been reported. Possible contributing factors include use for extended periods of time, higher than recommended dose, and/or use in combination with other anorectic drugs. However, no cases of this valvulopathy have been reported when benzphetamine has been used alone. The potential risk of possible serious adverse effects such as valvular heart disease and pulmonary hypertension should be assessed carefully against the potential benefit of weight loss. Baseline cardiac evaluation should be considered to detect pre-existing valvular heart diseases or pulmonary hypertension prior to initiation of benzphetamine treatment. Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in patients with known heart murmur or valvular heart disease. Echocardiogram during and after treatment could be useful for detecting any valvular disorders which may occur. To limit unwarranted exposure and risks, treatment with benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets should be continued only if the patient has satisfactory weight loss within the first 4 weeks of treatment (i.e., weight loss of at least 4 pounds, or as determined by the physician and patient). When tolerance to the anorectic effect develops, the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect; rather, the drug should be discontinued. Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for severely hypertensive patients or for patients with symptomatic cardiovascular disease including arrhythmias. Benzphetamine hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for patients who used any anorectic agents within the prior year.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 14d4589d-7f1c-4b6e-9557-59dad39b0960
