Name: Bevacizumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MVASI is a vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: Metastatic colorectal cancer, in combination with intravenous fluorouracil-based chemotherapy for first- or second-line treatment. ( 1.1 ) Metastatic colorectal cancer, in combination with fluoropyrimidine-irinotecan- or fluoropyrimidine-oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy for second-line treatment in patients who have progressed on a first-line bevacizumab product-containing regimen. ( 1.1 ) Limitations of Use : MVASI is not indicated for adjuvant treatment of colon cancer. ( 1.1 ) Unresectable, locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel for first-line treatment. ( 1.2 ) Recurrent glioblastoma in adults. ( 1.3 ) Metastatic renal cell carcinoma in combination with interferon-alfa. ( 1.4 ) Persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer, in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin, or paclitaxel and topotecan. ( 1.5 ) Epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer: in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, followed by MVASI as a single agent, for stage III or IV disease following initial surgical resection ( 1.6 ) in combination with paclitaxel, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, or topotecan for platinum-resistant recurrent disease who received no more than 2 prior chemotherapy regimens ( 1.6 ) in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel or carboplatin and gemcitabine, followed by MVASI as a single agent, for platinum-sensitive recurrent disease ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Metastatic Colorectal Cancer MVASI, in combination with intravenous fluorouracil-based chemotherapy, is indicated for the first- or second-line treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). MVASI, in combination with fluoropyrimidine-irinotecan- or fluoropyrimidine-oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy, is indicated for the second-line treatment of patients with mCRC who have progressed on a first-line bevacizumab product-containing regimen. Limitations of Use : MVASI is not indicated for adjuvant treatment of colon cancer [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.2 First-Line Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer MVASI, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, is indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable, locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 1.3 Recurrent Glioblastoma MVASI is indicated for the treatment of recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) in adults. 1.4 Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma MVASI, in combination with interferon-alfa, is indicated for the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). 1.5 Persistent, Recurrent, or Metastatic Cervical Cancer MVASI, in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin or paclitaxel and topotecan, is indicated for the treatment of patients with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer. 1.6 Epithelial Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer MVASI, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, followed by MVASI as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of patients with stage III or IV epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer following initial surgical resection. MVASI, in combination with paclitaxel, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, or topotecan, is indicated for the treatment of patients with platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who received no more than 2 prior chemotherapy regimens. MVASI, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, or with carboplatin and gemcitabine, followed by MVASI as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of patients with platinum-sensitive recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Withhold for at least 28 days prior to elective surgery. Do not administer MVASI for 28 days following major surgery and until adequate wound healing. ( 2.1 ) Metastatic colorectal cancer ( 2.2 ) 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks with bolus-IFL 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks with FOLFOX4 5 mg/kg every 2 weeks or 7.5 mg/kg every 3 weeks with fluoropyrimidine-irinotecan or fluoropyrimidine-oxaliplatin based chemotherapy after progression on a first-line bevacizumab product-containing regimen First-line non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer ( 2.3 ) 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks with carboplatin and paclitaxel Recurrent glioblastoma ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks Metastatic renal cell carcinoma ( 2.5 ) 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks with interferon-alfa Persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer ( 2.6 ) 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks with paclitaxel and cisplatin or paclitaxel and topotecan Stage III or IV epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer following initial surgical resection ( 2.7 ) 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks with carboplatin and paclitaxel for up to 6 cycles, followed by 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks as a single agent, for a total of up to 22 cycles Platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer ( 2.7 ) 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks with paclitaxel, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, or topotecan given every week 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks with topotecan given every 3 weeks Platinum-sensitive recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer ( 2.7 ) 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks with carboplatin and paclitaxel for 6-8 cycles, followed by 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks as a single agent 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks with carboplatin and gemcitabine for 6-10 cycles, followed by 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks as a single agent Administer as an intravenous infusion after dilution. See full Prescribing Information for preparation and administration instructions and dosage modifications for adverse reactions ( 2.8 , 2.9 ) 2.1 Important Administration Information Withhold for at least 28 days prior to elective surgery. Do not administer MVASI until at least 28 days following major surgery and until adequate wound healing. 2.2 Metastatic Colorectal Cancer The recommended dosage when MVASI is administered in combination with intravenous fluorouracil-based chemotherapy is: 5 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks in combination with bolus-IFL. 10 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks in combination with FOLFOX4. 5 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks or 7.5 mg/kg intravenously every 3 weeks in combination with fluoropyrimidine-irinotecan- or fluoropyrimidine-oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in patients who have progressed on a first-line bevacizumab product-containing regimen. 2.3 First-Line Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer The recommended dosage is 15 mg/kg intravenously every 3 weeks in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel. 2.4 Recurrent Glioblastoma The recommended dosage is 10 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks. 2.5 Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma The recommended dosage is 10 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks in combination with interferon-alfa. 2.6 Persistent, Recurrent, or Metastatic Cervical Cancer The recommended dosage is 15 mg/kg intravenously every 3 weeks in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin, or in combination with paclitaxel and topotecan. 2.7 Epithelial Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer Stage III or IV Disease Following Initial Surgical Resection The recommended dosage is 15 mg/kg intravenously every 3 weeks in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel for up to 6 cycles, followed by MVASI 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks as a single agent for a total of up to 22 cycles or until disease progression, whichever occurs earlier. Recurrent Disease Platinum Resistant The recommended dosage is 10 mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks in combination with paclitaxel, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, or topotecan (every week). The recommended dosage is 15 mg/kg intravenously every 3 weeks in combination with topotecan (every 3 weeks). Platinum Sensitive The recommended dosage is 15 mg/kg intravenously every 3 weeks, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel for 6 to 8 cycles, followed by MVASI 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks as a single agent until disease progression. The recommended dosage is 15 mg/kg intravenously every 3 weeks, in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine for 6 to 10 cycles, followed by MVASI 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks as a single agent until disease progression. 2.8 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Table 1 describes dosage modifications for specific adverse reactions. No dose reductions for MVASI are recommended. Table 1: Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Adverse Reaction Severity Dosage Modification Gastrointestinal Perforations and Fistulae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Gastrointestinal perforation, any grade Tracheoesophageal fistula, any grade Fistula, Grade 4 Fistula formation involving any internal organ Discontinue MVASI Wound Healing Complications [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Any Withhold MVASI until adequate wound healing. The safety of resumption of bevacizumab products after resolution of wound healing complications has not been established. Necrotizing fasciitis Discontinue MVASI Hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Grade 3 or 4 Discontinue MVASI Recent history of hemoptysis of 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 mL) or more Withhold MVASI Thromboembolic Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.5) ] Arterial thromboembolism, severe Discontinue MVASI Venous thromboembolism, Grade 4 Discontinue MVASI Hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Hypertensive crisis Hypertensive encephalopathy Discontinue MVASI Hypertension, severe Withhold MVASI if not controlled with medical management; resume once controlled Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Any Discontinue MVASI Renal Injury and Proteinuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Nephrotic syndrome Discontinue MVASI Proteinuria greater than or equal to 2 grams per 24 hours in absence of nephrotic syndrome Withhold MVASI until proteinuria less than 2 grams per 24 hours Infusion-Related Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Severe Discontinue MVASI Clinically significant Interrupt infusion; resume at a decreased rate of infusion after symptoms resolve Mild, clinically insignificant Decrease infusion rate Congestive Heart Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Any Discontinue MVASI 2.9 Preparation and Administration Preparation Use appropriate aseptic technique. Use sterile needle and syringe to prepare MVASI. Visually inspect vial for particulate matter and discoloration prior to preparation for administration. Discard vial if solution is cloudy, discolored or contains particulate matter. Withdraw necessary amount of MVASI and dilute in a total volume of 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. DO NOT ADMINISTER OR MIX WITH DEXTROSE SOLUTION. Discard any unused portion left in a vial, as the product contains no preservatives. Diluted MVASI solution may be stored at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) for up to 8 hours, if not used immediately. No incompatibilities between MVASI and polyvinylchloride or polyolefin bags have been observed. Administration Administer as an intravenous infusion. First infusion: Administer infusion over 90 minutes. Subsequent infusions: Administer second infusion over 60 minutes if first infusion is tolerated. Administer all subsequent infusions over 30 minutes if second infusion over 60 minutes is tolerated.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING MVASI (bevacizumab-awwb) injection is a clear to slightly opalescent, colorless to pale yellow, sterile solution for intravenous infusion supplied as single-dose vials in the following strengths: 100 mg/4 mL (25 mg/mL) (NDC 55513-206-01, 55513-206-21) and 400 mg/16 mL (25 mg/mL) (NDC 55513-207-01, 55513-207-21). Each carton contains one vial. Store refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in the original carton until time of use to protect from light. Do not freeze or shake the vial or carton.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0a562b4e-67ce-4bab-852c-d9ee71e55fb8
