Name: Brodalumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SILIQ ® (brodalumab) is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy and have failed to respond or have lost response to other systemic therapies. SILIQ is a human interleukin-17 receptor A (IL-17RA) antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy and have failed to respond or have lost response to other systemic therapies. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer 210 mg of SILIQ by subcutaneous injection at Weeks 0, 1, and 2 followed by 210 mg every 2 weeks. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Tuberculosis Assessment Prior to Initiation of SILIQ Evaluate patients for tuberculosis (TB) infection prior to initiating treatment with SILIQ [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 2.2 Dosage The recommended SILIQ dose is 210 mg administered by subcutaneous injection at Weeks 0, 1, and 2 followed by 210 mg every 2 weeks. If an adequate response has not been achieved after 12 to 16 weeks of treatment with SILIQ, consider discontinuing therapy. Continued treatment beyond 16 weeks in patients who have not achieved an adequate response is not likely to result in greater success. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Administer SILIQ subcutaneously. Each prefilled syringe is for single dose only. Instruct patients to review the Medication Guide before use [see Medication Guide] . SILIQ is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a healthcare professional. Patients may self-inject SILIQ when deemed appropriate by a healthcare professional and after proper training in subcutaneous injection technique using the prefilled syringe. Advise patients who are self-administering to inject the full dose and to read the Instructions for Use before administration [ see Instructions for Use] . Do not inject SILIQ into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, hard, thick, scaly, or affected by psoriasis. 2.4 Preparation of SILIQ Prefilled Syringe Allow SILIQ prefilled syringe to reach room temperature (approximately 30 minutes) before injecting. Do not warm in any other way. Do not remove the gray needle cap on the prefilled syringe while allowing it to reach room temperature. Visually inspect SILIQ for particles and discoloration prior to administration. SILIQ is a clear to slightly opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow solution. Do not use SILIQ if it is cloudy or discolored or if foreign matter is present. Instruct patients to use the prefilled syringe and to inject the full amount (1.5 mL), which provides 210 mg of SILIQ, according to the directions provided in the Instructions for Use [see Instructions for Use].

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied SILIQ ® (brodalumab) injection is available in a single-dose prefilled syringe containing a sterile, preservative-free clear to slightly opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow solution. NDC 0187-0004-02: Carton of two 210 mg/1.5 mL single-dose prefilled syringes Storage and Handling Store refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in the original carton to protect from light and physical damage during storage. When necessary, prefilled syringes can be stored at room temperature up to a maximum of 77°F (25°C) in the original carton for a maximum single period of 14 days with protection from light and sources of heat. Once the prefilled syringe has reached room temperature, do not place back into the refrigerator. Discard after 14 days at room temperature. Do not freeze. Do not shake.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1a550c33-456a-4833-814e-8591aea7c688
