Name: Carbinoxamine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carbinoxamine maleate is effective for the symptomatic treatment of: Seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis. Vasomotor rhinitis. Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods. Mild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema. Dermatographism. As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled. Amelioration of the severity of allergic reactions to blood or plasma.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in children younger than 2 years of age (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Carbinoxamine maleate should be taken on an empty stomach with water. DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. Carbinoxamine maleate dosage should be based on the severity of the condition and the response of the patient. The drug is well tolerated in adults in doses as high as 24 mg daily, in divided doses, over prolonged periods. On the other hand, some patients respond to as little as 4 mg daily. Clinical experience suggests the following dosage schedule: Usual Adult Dosage: 1 tablet (6 mg) 3 to 4 times daily

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Carbinoxamine Maleate Tablets USP, 6 mg are supplied as white to off-white, round tablet, debossed with “LP” over “239” on one side and plain on the other side, in bottles of 100 tablets, NDC 69315-239-01 Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15°C and 30°C (between 59°F and 86°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container with a child-resistant closure as defined in the official compendium. Rx only Manufactured and Distributed by: Leading Pharma, LLC 3 Oak Rd, Fairfield, New Jersey (NJ) 07004 United States (USA) Rev. 04 07/25 WARNINGS Deaths have been reported in children less than 2 years of age who were taking antihistamines, including carbinoxamine-containing drug products, therefore, carbinoxamine maleate is contraindicated in children younger than 2 years of age (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with: narrow angle glaucoma, stenosing peptic ulcer, symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy, bladder neck obstruction, pyloroduodenal obstruction.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 02e13b55-2153-468e-a5bd-57dee062f47f
