Name: Carvedilol

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carvedilol tablets are an alpha/beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of: mild to severe chronic heart failure ( 1.1 ) left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in clinically stable patients( 1.2 ) hypertension( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure Carvedilol tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild-to-severe chronic heart failure of ischemic or cardiomyopathic origin, usually in addition to diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and digitalis, to increase survival and, also, to reduce the risk of hospitalization [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction Carvedilol tablets are indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction and have a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40% (with or without symptomatic heart failure) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Hypertension Carvedilol tablets are indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 , 14.4 )] . It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take with food. Individualize dosage and monitor during up-titration. ( 2 ) Heart failure: Start at 3.125 mg twice daily and increase to 6.25, 12.5, and then 25 mg twice daily over intervals of at least 2 weeks. Maintain lower doses if higher doses are not tolerated. ( 2.1 ) Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase to 12.5 mg then 25 mg twice daily after intervals of 3 to 10 days. A lower starting dose or slower titration may be used.( 2.2 ) Hypertension: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase if needed for blood pressure control to 12.5 mg and then 25 mg twice daily over intervals of 1 to 2 weeks.( 2.3 ) Carvedilol should be taken with food to slow the rate of absorption and reduce the incidence of orthostatic effects. 2.1 Heart Failure DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND CLOSELY MONITORED BY A PHYSICIAN DURING UP-TITRATION. Prior to initiation of Carvedilol tablets, it is recommended that fluid retention be minimized. The recommended starting dose of Carvedilol tablets are 3.125 mg twice daily for 2 weeks. If tolerated, patients may have their dose increased to 6.25, 12.5, and 25 mg twice daily over successive intervals of at least 2 weeks. Patients should be maintained on lower doses if higher doses are not tolerated. A maximum dose of 50 mg twice daily has been administered to patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure weighing over 85 kg (187 lbs). Patients should be advised that initiation of treatment and (to a lesser extent) dosage increases may be associated with transient symptoms of dizziness or lightheadedness (and rarely syncope) within the first hour after dosing. During these periods, patients should avoid situations such as driving or hazardous tasks, where symptoms could result in injury. Vasodilatory symptoms often do not require treatment, but it may be useful to separate the time of dosing of Carvedilol tablets from that of the ACE inhibitor or to reduce temporarily the dose of the ACE inhibitor. The dose of Carvedilol tablets should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure or vasodilation have been stabilized. Fluid retention (with or without transient worsening heart failure symptoms) should be treated by an increase in the dose of diuretics. The dose of Carvedilol tablets should be reduced if patients experience bradycardia (heart rate less than 55 beats per minute). Episodes of dizziness or fluid retention during initiation of Carvedilol tablets can generally be managed without discontinuation of treatment and do not preclude subsequent successful titration of, or a favorable response to, carvedilol. 2.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND MONITORED DURING UP-TITRATION. Treatment with carvedilol tablets may be started as an inpatient or outpatient and should be started after the patient is hemodynamically stable and fluid retention has been minimized. It is recommended that carvedilol tablets be started at 6.25 mg twice daily and increased after 3 to 10 days, based on tolerability, to 12.5 mg twice daily, then again to the target dose of 25 mg twice daily. A lower starting dose may be used (3.125 mg twice daily) and/or the rate of up-titration may be slowed if clinically indicated (e.g., due to low blood pressure or heart rate, or fluid retention). Patients should be maintained on lower doses if higher doses are not tolerated. The recommended dosing regimen need not be altered in patients who received treatment with an IV or oral β-blocker during the acute phase of the myocardial infarction. 2.3 Hypertension DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED. The recommended starting dose of carvedilol tablets are 6.25 mg twice daily. If this dose is tolerated, using standing systolic pressure measured about 1 hour after dosing as a guide, the dose should be maintained for 7 to 14 days, and then increased to 12.5 mg twice daily if needed, based on trough blood pressure, again using standing systolic pressure 1 hour after dosing as a guide for tolerance. This dose should also be maintained for 7 to 14 days and can then be adjusted upward to 25 mg twice daily if tolerated and needed. The full antihypertensive effect of carvedilol tablets are seen within 7 to 14 days. Total daily dose should not exceed 50 mg. Concomitant administration with a diuretic can be expected to produce additive effects and exaggerate the orthostatic component of carvedilol action. 2.4 Hepatic Impairment Carvedilol tablets should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Carvedilol Tablets USP, 3.125 mg are white to off-white, round, biconvex, film-coated tablets debossed with 'Z' on one side and '1' on other side and are supplied as follows: NDC-42708-181-60 in bottles of 60 tablets Storage Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 010290af-81f4-0037-e063-6394a90a4638
