Name: Cholestyramine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1) Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the reduction of elevated serum cholesterol in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (elevated low density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol) who do not respond adequately to diet. Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder may be useful to lower LDL cholesterol in patients who also have hypertriglyceridemia, but it is not indicated where hypertriglyceridemia is the abnormality of most concern. Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be a component of multiple risk factor intervention in those individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. Treatment should begin and continue with dietary therapy specific for the type of hyperlipoproteinemia determined prior to initiation of drug therapy. Excess body weight may be an important factor and caloric restriction for weight normalization should be addressed prior to drug therapy in the overweight. Prior to initiating therapy with cholestyramine resin, secondary causes of hypercholesterolemia (e.g., poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, nephrotic syndrome, dysproteinemias, obstructive liver disease, other drug therapy, alcoholism), should be excluded and a lipid profile performed to assess Total cholesterol, HDL-C and triglycerides (TG). For individuals with TG less than 400 mg/dL (<4.5 mmol/L), LDL-C can be estimated using the following equation: LDL-C = Total cholesterol - [(TG/5) + HDL-C] For TG levels > 400 mg/dL, this equation is less accurate and LDL-C concentrations should be determined by ultracentrifugation. In hypertriglyceridemic patients, LDL-C may be low or normal despite elevated Total-C. In such cases cholestyramine resin may not be indicated. Serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels should be determined periodically based on NCEP guidelines to confirm initial and adequate long-term response. A favorable trend in cholesterol reduction should occur during the first month of cholestyramine resin therapy. The therapy should be continued to sustain cholesterol reduction. If adequate cholesterol reduction is not attained, increasing the dosage of cholestyramine resin or adding other lipid-lowering agents in combination with cholestyramine resin should be considered. Since the goal of treatment is to lower LDL-C, the NCEP4 recommends that LDL-C levels be used to initiate and assess treatment response. If LDL-C levels are not available then Total-C alone may be used to monitor long-term therapy. A lipoprotein analysis (including LDL-C determination) should be carried out once a year. The NCEP treatment guidelines are summarized below. Definite Atherosclerotic Disease * Two or More Other Risk Factors † LDL-Cholesterol mg/dL (mmol/L) Initiation Level Goal No No ≥ 190 (4.9) ≥ 60 (4.1) No Yes ≥ 160 (4.1) ≥ 130 (3.4) Yes Yes or No ≥ 130 (3.4) ≥ 100 (‑2.6) * Coronary heart disease or peripheral vascular disease (including symptomatic carotid artery disease). † Other risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) include: age (males 45 years; females: 55 years or premature menopause without estrogen replacement therapy); family history of premature CHD; current cigarette smoking; hypertension; confirmed HDL-C <35 mg/dL (<0.91 mmol/L); and diabetes mellitus. Subtract one risk factor if HDL-C is 60 mg/dL (1.6 mmol/L). Cholestyramine resin monotherapy has been demonstrated to retard the rate of progression 2,3 and increase the rate of regression 3 of coronary atherosclerosis. 2) Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder, is indicated for the relief of pruritus associated with partial biliary obstruction. Cholestyramine resin has been shown to have a variable effect on serum cholesterol in these patients. Patients with primary biliary cirrhosis may exhibit an elevated cholesterol as part of their disease.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting adult dose for Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder is one pouch or one level scoopful (5.7 grams of Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder contains 4 grams of anhydrous cholestyramine resin) once or twice a day. The recommended maintenance dose for Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder is 2 to 4 pouches or scoopfuls daily (8 to 16 grams anhydrous cholestyramine resin) divided into two doses. It is recommended that increases in dose be gradual with periodic assessment of lipid/lipoprotein levels at intervals of not less than 4 weeks. The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 pouches or scoopfuls of Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder (24 grams of anhydrous cholestyramine resin). The suggested time of administration is at mealtime but may be modified to avoid interference with absorption of other medications. Although the recommended dosing schedule is twice daily, Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder may be administered in 1 to 6 doses per day. Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder should not be taken in its dry form. Always mix the dry powder with water or other fluids before ingesting. See Preparation Instructions. Concomitant Therapy Preliminary evidence suggests that the lipid-lowering effects of cholestyramine on total and LDL-cholesterol are enhanced when combined with a HMG-COA reductase inhibitor, e.g., pravastatin, lovastatin, simvastatin and fluvastatin. Additive effects on LDL-cholesterol are also seen with combined nicotinic acid/cholestyramine therapy. See the PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for recommendations on administering concomitant therapy. Preparation The color of Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder may vary somewhat from batch to batch but this variation does not affect the performance of the product. Place the contents of one single-dose pouch or one level scoopful of Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder in a glass or cup. Add at least 2 to 3 ounces of water or the beverage of your choice. Stir to a uniform consistency. Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder may also be mixed with highly fluid soups or pulpy fruits with a high moisture content such as applesauce or crushed pineapple.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder orange flavor is available in cartons of sixty 5.7 gram pouches and in cans containing 239.4 grams. Each 5.7 gram dose of Cholestyramine for Oral Suspension, USP Light powder contains 4 grams of anhydrous cholestyramine resin. NDC # 42806-270-95 Carton of 60 pouches NDC # 42806-271-97 Can, 239.4 g (containing a scoop that is not interchangeable with scoops from other products) Storage Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Always replace plastic lid after using. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. WARNINGS PHENYLKETONURICS: CHOLESTYRAMINE FOR ORAL SUSPENSION, USP LIGHT POWDER CONTAINS 22.4 mg PHENYLALANINE PER 5.7 GRAM DOSE.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 00990dec-7618-4cc8-9387-48c2cea8df1c
