Name: Clemastine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clemastine Fumarate Tablets USP, 2.68 mg are indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis such as sneezing, rhinorrhea, pruritus, and lacrimation. Clemastine Fumarate Tablets USP, 2.68 mg are also indicated for the relief of mild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema. It should be noted that clemastine fumarate is indicated for the dermatologic indications at the 2.68 mg dosage level only.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. Clemastine Fumarate Tablets 2.68 mg The maximum recommended dosage is one tablet three times daily. Many patients respond favorably to a single dose which may be repeated as required, but not to exceed three tablets daily.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Clemastine Fumarate Tablets USP, 2.68 mg are white, round, scored tablets debossed with "93" and "308". Tablets are packaged in bottles of 100. (NDC 0093-0308-01) Store at 20 o to 25 o C (68 o to 77 o F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP, with a child-resistant closure (as required). Manufactured For: Teva Pharmaceuticals Parsippany, NJ 07054 Rev. J 4/2022 WARNINGS Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with: narrow angle glaucoma, stenosing peptic ulcer, pyloroduodenal obstruction, symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy, and bladder neck obstruction. Usage in Children Safety and efficacy of clemastine fumarate have not been established in children under the age of 12 years. Usage in Pregnancy Experience with this drug in pregnant women is inadequate to determine whether there exists a potential for harm to the developing fetus. Usage with CNS Depressants Clemastine has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants (hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, etc.). Usage in Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car or operating appliances, machinery, etc. Usage in the Elderly (approximately 60 years or older) Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness, sedation, and hypotension in elderly patients.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 14aaadca-7d86-47e8-8483-6e05d456949d
