Name: Clindamycin

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin phosphate topical lotion is indicated in the treatment of acne vulgaris. In view of the potential for diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis, the physician should consider whether other agents are more appropriate (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ).

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of clindamycin phosphate topical lotion twice daily to affected area. Lotion: Shake well immediately before using. Keep all liquid dosage forms in containers tightly closed.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Clindamycin phosphate topical lotion, 1% containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per milliliter is available in the following size: 60 mL plastic squeeze bottle – NDC: 63629-8632-1 Store at controlled room temperature 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP]. Protect from freezing. Rx Only Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504 WARNINGS Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may result in patient death. Use of the topical formulation of clindamycin results in absorption of the antibiotic from the skin surface. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Endoscopic examination may reveal pseudomembranous colitis. Stool culture for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. When significant diarrhea occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Large bowel endoscopy should be considered to establish a definitive diagnosis in cases of severe diarrhea. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen the condition. Vancomycin has been found to be effective in the treatment of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by Clostridium difficile . The usual adult dosage is 500 milligrams to 2 grams of vancomycin orally per day in three to four divided doses administered for 7 to 10 days. Cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind vancomycin in vitro . If both a resin and vancomycin are to be administered concurrently, it may be advisable to separate the time of administration of each drug. Diarrhea, colitis, and pseudomembranous colitis have been observed to begin up to several weeks following cessation of oral and parenteral therapy with clindamycin.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 00fe3546-a166-412f-a543-0ae7763c0ca0
