Name: Clobazam

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobazam oral suspension is indicated for the adjunctive treatment of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) in patients 2 years of age or older. Clobazam oral suspension is a benzodiazepine indicated for adjunctive treatment of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) in patients 2 years of age or older ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For doses above 5 mg/day administer in two divided doses ( 2.1 ) Patients ≤30 kg body weight: Initiate at 5 mg daily and titrate as tolerated up to 20 mg daily ( 2.1 ) Patients greater than 30 kg body weight: Initiate at 10 mg daily and titrate as tolerated up to 40 mg daily ( 2.1 ) Dosage adjustment needed in following groups: o Geriatric patients ( 2.4 , 8.5 ) o Known CYP2C19 poor metabolizers ( 2.5 ) o Mild or moderate hepatic impairment; no information for severe hepatic impairment ( 2.7 , 8.8 ) Measure prescribed amount of oral suspension using provided adapter and dosing syringe ( 2.3 ) Oral suspension: Can be taken with or without food ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Dosing Information A daily dose of clobazam oral suspension greater than 5 mg should be administered in divided doses twice daily; a 5 mg daily dose can be administered as a single dose. Dose patients according to body weight. Individualize dosing within each body weight group, based on clinical efficacy and tolerability. Each dose in Table 1 (e.g., 5 to 20 mg in ≤30 kg weight group) has been shown to be effective, although effectiveness increases with increasing dose [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Do not proceed with dose escalation more rapidly than weekly, because serum concentrations of clobazam and its active metabolite require 5 and 9 days, respectively, to reach steady-state. Table 1. Recommended Total Daily Dosing by Weight Group ≤30 kg Body Weight Greater than 30 kg Body Weight Starting Dose 5 mg 10 mg Starting Day 7 10 mg 20 mg Starting Day 14 20 mg 40 mg 2.2 Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Clobazam Oral Suspension To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, increased seizure frequency, and status epilepticus, use a gradual taper to discontinue clobazam oral suspension or reduce the dosage. Taper by decreasing the total daily dose by 5 to 10 mg/day on a weekly basis until discontinued. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Instruct patients to read the “Instructions for Use” carefully for complete directions on how to properly dose and administer clobazam oral suspension. Clobazam oral suspension Oral Administration Clobazam oral suspension can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Shake clobazam oral suspension well before every administration. When administering the oral suspension, use only the oral dosing syringe provided with the product. Each carton includes two syringes, but only one syringe should be used for dosing. The second oral syringe is reserved as a replacement in case the first syringe is damaged or lost. Insert the provided adapter firmly into the neck of the bottle before first use and keep the adapter in place for the duration of the usage of the bottle. To withdraw the dose, insert the dosing syringe into the adapter and invert the bottle then slowly pull back the plunger to prescribed dose. After removing the syringe from the bottle adapter, slowly squirt clobazam oral suspension into the corner of the patient’s mouth. Replace the cap after each use. The cap fits over the adapter when the adapter is properly placed. See clobazam oral suspension “Instructions for Use” for complete instruction on how to properly dose and administer the clobazam oral suspension. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments in Geriatric Patients Plasma concentrations at any given dose are generally higher in the elderly: proceed slowly with dose escalation. The starting dose should be 5 mg/day for all elderly patients. Then titrate elderly patients according to weight, but to half the dose presented in Table 1, as tolerated. If necessary and based upon clinical response, an additional titration to the maximum dose (20 mg/day or 40 mg/day, depending on weight) may be started on day 21 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in CYP2C19 Poor Metabolizers In CYP2C19 poor metabolizers, levels of N-desmethylclobazam, clobazam’s active metabolite, will be increased. Therefore, in patients known to be CYP2C19 poor metabolizers, the starting dose should be 5 mg/day and dose titration should proceed slowly according to weight, but to half the dose presented in Table 1, as tolerated. If necessary and based upon clinical response, an additional titration to the maximum dose (20 mg/day or 40 mg/day, depending on the weight group) may be started on day 21 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )]. 2.6 Patients with Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment. There is no experience with clobazam oral suspension in patients with severe renal impairment or end stage renal disease (ESRD). It is not known if clobazam or its active metabolite, N-desmethylclobazam, is dialyzable [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.7 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Clobazam oral suspension is hepatically metabolized; however, there are limited data to characterize the effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of clobazam oral suspension. For this reason, proceed slowly with dosing escalations. For patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5 to 9), the starting dose should be 5 mg/day in both weight groups. Then titrate patients according to weight, but to half the dose presented in Table 1, as tolerated. If necessary and based upon clinical response, start an additional titration on day 21 to the maximum dose (20 mg/day or 40 mg/day, depending on the weight group). There is inadequate information about metabolism of clobazam oral suspension in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Therefore no dosing recommendation in those patients can be given [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Clobazam oral suspension is a berry flavored white to off-white suspension supplied in a bottle with child- resistant closure. The oral suspension is packaged with a dispenser set which contains two calibrated oral dosing syringes and a bottle adapter. Store and dispense clobazam oral suspension in its original bottle in an upright position. Use within 90 days of first opening the bottle, then discard any remainder. NDC 67877-658-61: 2.5 mg/mL supplied in a bottle containing 120 mL of suspension. Store oral suspension at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 07e0ae51-cc71-427f-83cb-311b7fcc5993
