Name: Clonazepam

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seizure Disorders: Clonazepam tablets are useful alone or as an adjunct in the treatment of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (petit mal variant), akinetic and myoclonic seizures. In patients with absence seizures (petit mal) who have failed to respond to succinimides, clonazepam tablets may be useful. Some loss of effect may occur during the course of clonazepam treatment (see PRECAUTIONS: Loss of Effect ). Panic Disorder: Clonazepam tablets are indicated for the treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, as defined in DSM-V. Panic disorder is characterized by the occurrence of unexpected panic attacks and associated concern about having additional attacks, worry about the implications or consequences of the attacks, and/or a significant change in behavior related to the attacks. The efficacy of clonazepam tablets was established in two 6- to 9-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-IIIR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Panic disorder (DSM-V) is characterized by recurrent unexpected panic attacks, i.e., a discrete period of intense fear or discomfort in which four (or more) of the following symptoms develop abruptly and reach a peak within 10 minutes: (1) palpitations, pounding heart or accelerated heart rate; (2) sweating; (3) trembling or shaking; (4) sensations of shortness of breath or smothering; (5) feeling of choking; (6) chest pain or discomfort; (7) nausea or abdominal distress; (8) feeling dizzy, unsteady, lightheaded or faint; (9) derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (being detached from oneself); (10) fear of losing control; (11) fear of dying; (12) paresthesias (numbness or tingling sensations); (13) chills or hot flushes. The effectiveness of clonazepam tablets in long-term use, that is, for more than 9 weeks, has not been systematically studied in controlled clinical trials. The physician who elects to use clonazepam tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long- term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ).

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clonazepam is available as a tablet. The tablets should be administered with water by swallowing the tablet whole. Seizure Disorders: The use of multiple anticonvulsants may result in an increase of CNS depressant adverse effects. This should be considered before adding clonazepam tablets to an existing anticonvulsant regimen. Adults: The initial dose for adults with seizure disorders should not exceed 1.5 mg/day divided into three doses. Dosage may be increased in increments of 0.5 to 1 mg every 3 days until seizures are adequately controlled or until side effects preclude any further increase. Maintenance dosage must be individualized for each patient depending upon response. Maximum recommended daily dose is 20 mg. Pediatric Patients: Clonazepam tablets are administered orally. In order to minimize drowsiness, the initial dose for infants and children (up to 10 years of age or 30 kg of body weight) should be between 0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg/day but not to exceed 0.05 mg/kg/day given in two or three divided doses. Dosage should be increased by no more than 0.25 to 0.5 mg every third day until a daily maintenance dose of 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg of body weight has been reached, unless seizures are controlled or side effects preclude further increase. Whenever possible, the daily dose should be divided into three equal doses. If doses are not equally divided, the largest dose should be given before retiring. Geriatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam tablets in seizure disorder patients 65 years of age and older. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam tablets and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ) . Panic Disorder: Adults: The initial dose for adults with panic disorder is 0.25 mg twice daily. An increase to the target dose for most patients of 1 mg/day may be made after 3 days. The recommended dose of 1 mg/day is based on the results from a fixed dose study in which the optimal effect was seen at 1 mg/day. Higher doses of 2, 3 and 4 mg/day in that study were less effective than the 1 mg/day dose and were associated with more adverse effects. Nevertheless, it is possible that some individual patients may benefit from doses of up to a maximum dose of 4 mg/day, and in those instances, the dose may be increased in increments of 0.125 to 0.25 mg bid every 3 days until panic disorder is controlled or until side effects make further increases undesired. To reduce the inconvenience of somnolence, administration of one dose at bedtime may be desirable. Treatment should be discontinued gradually, with a decrease of 0.125 mg twice daily every 3 days, until the drug is completely withdrawn. There is no body of evidence available to answer the question of how long the patient treated with clonazepam should remain on it. Therefore, the physician who elects to use clonazepam tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Pediatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam tablets in panic disorder patients under 18 years of age. Geriatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam tablets in panic disorder patients 65 years of age and older. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ). Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of clonazepam tablets: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, increased seizure frequency, and status epilepticus, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam tablets or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ) .

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Clonazepam Tablets USP, 0.5 mg are mottled orange, round, flat-faced, beveled edge tablet, debossed with Λ on one side and scored on the other side. They are supplied as follows: 66 NDC 72603-307-01, bottles of 100. NDC 72603-307-02, bottles of 500. Clonazepam Tablets USP, 1 mg are mottled blue, round, flat-faced, beveled edge tablet, debossed with Λ on one side and plain on the other side. They are supplied as follows: 67 NDC 72603-308-01, bottles of 100. NDC 72603-308-02, bottles of 500. NDC 72603-308-03, bottles of 1000. Clonazepam Tablets USP, 2 mg are white to off-white, round, flat-faced, beveled edge tablets, debossed with Λ on one side and plain on the other side. They are supplied as follows: 69 NDC 72603-309-01, bottles of 100. NDC 72603-309-02, bottles of 500. Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F -77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Medication Guide available at http://www.northstarrxllc.com/products or call 1-800-206-7821 Manufactured for: Northstar Rx LLC Memphis, TN 38141. Toll-Free: 1-800-206-7821 Manufactured by: Rubicon Research Ltd., Thane 421506, India. Iss. 07/2024 image description WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use With Opioids: Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam tablets, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of benzodiazepines and opioids in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. If a decision is made to prescribe clonazepam tablets concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when clonazepam tablets are used with opioids (see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction: The use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam tablets, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Abuse ). Before prescribing clonazepam tablets and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of clonazepam tablets, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of clonazepam tablets along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Prescribe the lowest effective dosage; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. If a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam tablets or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Clonazepam Tablets ) . Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had long durations of use. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam tablets, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of clonazepam tablets after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ) . Interference With Cognitive and Motor Performance: Since clonazepam tablets produces CNS depression, patients receiving this drug should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring mental alertness, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. They should also be warned about the concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS-depressant drugs during clonazepam tablets therapy (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ). Suicidal Behavior and Ideation: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs),including clonazepam tablets, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual changes in mood or behavior. Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono- and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% CI: 1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. In these trials, which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks, the estimated incidence rate of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27,863 AED-treated patients was 0.43% compared to 0.24% among 16,029 placebo-treated patients, representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated. There were four suicides in drug-treated patients in the trials and none in placebo-treated patients, but the number is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as one week after starting drug treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed. Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks, the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed. The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed. The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5-100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed. Table 1 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs. Table 1. Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence In Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Anyone considering prescribing clonazepam tablets or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated. Patients, their caregivers, and families should be informed that AEDs increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and should be advised of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of the signs and symptoms of depression, any unusual changes in mood or behavior, or the emergence of suicidal thoughts, behavior, or thoughts about self-harm. Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome: Use of clonazepam tablets late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Monitor neonates exposed to clonazepam tablets during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to clonazepam tablets during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 017534e6-49ff-45f3-b88f-2f34cf0cf8fd
