Name: Clozapine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VERSACLOZ is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for: Treatment of severely ill patients with schizophrenia who fail to respond adequately to standard antipsychotic treatment. Because of the risks of severe neutropenia and of seizure associated with its use, VERSACLOZ should be used only in patients who have failed to respond adequately to standard antipsychotic treatment (1.1). Reducing the risk of recurrent suicidal behavior in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who are judged to be at chronic risk for re-experiencing suicidal behavior (1.2). 1.1 Treatment-Resistant Schizophrenia VERSACLOZ is indicated for the treatment of severely ill patients with schizophrenia who fail to respond adequately to standard antipsychotic treatment. Because of the risks of severe neutropenia and of seizure associated with its use, VERSACLOZ should be used only in patients who have failed to respond adequately to standard antipsychotic treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4) ] . The effectiveness of clozapine in treatment-resistant schizophrenia was demonstrated in a 6-week, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled study comparing clozapine and chlorpromazine in patients who had failed other antipsychotics [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Reduction in the Risk of Recurrent Suicidal Behavior in Schizophrenia or Schizoaffective Disorders VERSACLOZ is indicated for reducing the risk of recurrent suicidal behavior in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who are judged to be at chronic risk for re-experiencing suicidal behavior, based on history and recent clinical state. Suicidal behavior refers to actions by a patient that put him/herself at risk for death. The effectiveness of clozapine in reducing the risk of recurrent suicidal behavior was demonstrated over a two-year treatment period in the InterSePT™ trial [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting oral dosage is 12.5 mg once daily or twice daily (2.2). If well-tolerated, increase the total daily dosage in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg per day to achieve a target dosage of 150 mg to 225 mg twice per day by the end of two weeks (2.2). Subsequently may increase the dosage in increments up to 100 mg once or twice weekly (2.2). Maximum daily dosage is 450 mg twice daily (2.2). Administer with or without food. See important administration instructions in the full prescribing information (2.3). See the dosage modifications based on ANC results and recommended frequency of ANC testing in the full prescribing information (2.4, 2.5). See recommendations for discontinuing VERSACLOZ treatment (2.6), restarting VERSACLOZ after interrupting dosing (2.7), dosage modifications for drug interactions (2.8), dosage recommendations in patients with renal or hepatic impairment and CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (2.9) in the full prescribing information. 2.1 Absolute Neutrophil Count Testing Prior to VERSACLOZ Initiation Prior to initiating VERSACLOZ treatment, obtain a baseline absolute neutrophil count (ANC). VERSACLOZ initiation is not recommended in patients with an ANC less than 1500/µL [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . For patients with documented Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) (also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count)), obtain at least two baseline ANC levels. VERSACLOZ initiation is not recommended in patients with BEN with an ANC less than 1000/µL [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . For dosage modifications based on ANC results, see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5) . 2.2 Recommended Dosage To reduce the risk of orthostatic hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope, the recommended starting dosage is much lower than the target dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . The recommended starting oral dosage of VERSACLOZ is 12.5 mg once or twice daily. If well-tolerated, increase the total daily dose in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg per day to achieve a target dosage of 150 mg to 225 mg twice per day by the end of two weeks. Subsequently, may increase the dosage in increments of up to 100 mg once weekly or twice weekly. The maximum recommended VERSACLOZ oral dosage is 450 mg twice daily. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Educate patients and caregivers on how to administer VERSACLOZ ( see the Instructions for Use ). VERSACLOZ can be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The following are important administration instructions: Administer VERSACLOZ orally using the provided oral syringes (1 mL or 9 mL). After shaking the VERSACLOZ bottle for 10 seconds, press the syringe adaptor on top of the bottle. Insert the oral syringe (1 mL or 9 mL) filled with air into the adapter, dispel the air into the bottle, and then turn the bottle upside down. Draw the prescribed amount of the oral suspension from the bottle and immediately dispense directly to the mouth after preparation. Do not store a dose in the syringe for later use. After use, may wash the oral syringe with warm water and then dry the oral syringe for the next use. The bottle may be closed with the same cap without removing the bottle adapter. 2.4 Dosage Modification Based on ANC Results Table 1 provides recommended VERSACLOZ dosage modifications based on ANC results [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . For dosage modifications based on ANC results for patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) (also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count), see Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)] . Table 1: VERSACLOZ Dosage Modifications Based on ANC Results and Frequency of ANC Testing Recommended Dosage Modification Recommended Frequency of ANC Teting During VERSACLOZ Treatment ANC Within Normal Range (≥1500/µL) No dosage modification: continue treatment Day 1 to Month 6: Weekly Month 7 to Month 12: Every 2 weeks Month 13 and thereafter: Every month If VERSACLOZ treatment is reinitiated after a dosage interruption (e.g., patient had neutropenia which required dosage interruption and now has a normal ANC level) for: < 30 days, continue the previous ANC testing frequency ≥ 30 days, obtain ANC tests according to the frequency for patients who initiate treatment Mild Neutropenia (ANC between 1000 to 1499/µL) 1 No dosage modification: continue treatment Three times weekly Once ANC ≥ 1500/µL, recommend returning to the patient’s last Normal Range ANC testing frequency Moderate Neutropenia (ANC between 500 to 999/µL) 1 Interrupt treatment and recommend hematology consultation Resume treatment once ANC ≥1000/µL Daily Once ANC ≥ 1000/µL, three times weekly Once ANC ≥ 1500/µL, test weekly for 4 weeks. If ANC ≥ 1500/µL after monitoring weekly for 4 weeks, return to the patient’s last Normal Range ANC testing frequency Severe Neutropenia (ANC less than 500/µL) 1 Discontinue treatment and recommend hematology consultation Daily Once ANC ≥ 1000/µL, three times weekly Once ANC ≥ 1500/µL, if the benefits outweigh the risks of restarting treatment, resume treatment and obtain ANC tests according to the frequency for patients who initiate treatment 1 Confirm all initial reports of ANC less than 1500/μL with a repeat ANC measurement within 24 hours 2.5 Dosage Modifications Based on ANC Results for Patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia Table 2 provides recommended VERSACLOZ dosage modifications based on ANC results for patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) (also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count). [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . For dosage modifications based on ANC results for patients without BEN, see Table 1 [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] . Table 2: Dosage Modifications Based on ANC Results and Frequency of ANC Testing in Patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia 1 Recommended Dosage Modification Recommended Frequency of ANC Teting During VERSACLOZ Treatment in Patients with BEN 1 ANC Within the Normal Range for Patients with BEN (≥ 1000/µL) No dosage modification: continue treatment Day 1 to Month 6: Weekly Month 7 to Month 12: Every 2 weeks Month 13 and thereafter: Monthly If VERSACLOZ treatment is reinitiated after a dosage interruption (e.g., patient had neutropenia which required dosage interruption and now their ANC (≥ 1000/µL and ≥ the patient’s ANC baseline prior to treatment) for: < 30 days, continue the previous ANC testing frequency ≥ 30 days, obtain ANC tests according to the frequency for patients with BEN who initiate treatment Neutropenia in Patients with BEN (ANC level between 500 to 999/μL) 2 Recommend hematology consultation No dosage modification: continue treatment Three times weekly Once ANC ≥ 1000/μL and ≥ the patient’s ANC baseline, obtain ANC tests weekly for 4 weeks If ANC ≥1000/μL and ≥ the patient’s baseline after monitoring for 4 weeks, return to the patient’s last Normal ANC Range testing frequency for patients with BEN. Severe Neutropenia in Patients with BEN (ANC level less than 500/μL) 2 Discontinue treatment and recommend hematology consultation Daily Once ANC ≥ 500/µL, obtain ANC three times weekly Once ANC ≥ 1000/µL and ≥ the patient’s baseline, if the benefits outweigh the risks of restarting treatment, resume treatment and obtain ANC tests according to the frequency for patients with BEN who initiate treatment 1 Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) is also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count. 2 Confirm all initial reports of ANC less than 1500/μL with a repeat ANC measurement within 24 hours 2.6 Discontinuation of VERSACLOZ Treatment If discontinuing VERSACLOZ in patients with: Moderate or severe neutropenia, see Table 1 [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] . Normal or mild neutropenia, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks, and continue monitoring ANC levels until their ANC is ≥1500/μL. If discontinuing VERSACLOZ in patients with Benign Ethnic Neutropenia (BEN) (also known as Duffy-null associated neutrophil count) with: Neutropenia, see Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)] . ANC within their normal range of ANC reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks. When discontinuing VERSACLOZ, monitor patients for the symptoms related to psychotic recurrence and cholinergic rebound (e.g., profuse sweating, headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). 2.7 Restarting VERSACLOZ Treatment After Interrupting VERSACLOZ When restarting VERSACLOZ in patients who have interrupted VERSACLOZ treatment, use a lower dosage to minimize the risk of hypotension, bradycardia, and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . If one day’s dosage is missed, resume VERSACLOZ treatment at 40% to 50% of the previous dosage. If two days of dosing is missed, resume VERSACLOZ treatment at approximately 25% of the previous dosage. For longer interruptions, restart VERSACLOZ treatment with a dosage of 12.5 mg once or twice daily. If this dosage is well-tolerated, may increase the dosage to the previous dosage more quickly than recommended than for initial VERSACLOZ treatment. 2.8 Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions See Table 3 for recommended dosage modifications to reduce the risk of VERSACLOZ associated adverse reactions or reduce the risk of lower effectiveness [see Drug Interactions (7)] . Table 3: VERSACLOZ Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors Administer one third of the VERSACLOZ dosage. Moderate or Weak CYP1A2 Inhibitors Consider reducing the VERSACLOZ dosage if necessary. CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant use is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is necessary, it may be necessary to increase the VERSACLOZ dosage. Monitor for decreased effectiveness. Moderate or weak CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 Inducers Consider increasing the VERSACLOZ dosage if necessary. 2.9 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment, or CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers It may be necessary to reduce the VERSACLOZ dosage in patients with significant renal impairment or hepatic impairment, or in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7)] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied Oral Suspension Free-flowing, yellow suspension (50 mg/mL) in amber bottle containing 100 mL. Each box contains 1 x 1 mL oral syringe, 1 x 9 mL oral syringe and 1 bottle adaptor. NDC No. 52817-601-38 16.2 Storage and Handling Store VERSACLOZ at room temperature between 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursion permitted between 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Do not refrigerate or freeze. Protect from light. Shake well for 10 seconds before use. The suspension is stable for 100 days after initial bottle opening. Keep out of reach of children

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 2592c9a8-fd74-4e0d-a895-b07b014cf355
