Name: Colesevelam

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Colesevelam hydrochloride is a bile acid sequestrant indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to: reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia ( 1.1 ). reduce LDL-C levels in boys and postmenarchal girls, 10 to 17 years of age, with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH), unable to reach LDL-C target levels despite an adequate trial of diet and lifestyle modification ( 1.1 ). improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1.2 ). Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ): Do not use for treatment of type 1 diabetes or for diabetic ketoacidosis. Not studied in Fredrickson Type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias 1.1 Primary Hyperlipidemia Colesevelam hydrochloride is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. Colesevelam hydrochloride is indicated to reduce LDL-C levels in boys and postmenarchal girls, 10 to 17 years of age, with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) who are unable to reach LDL-C target levels despite an adequate trial of dietary therapy and lifestyle modification. 1.2 Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Colesevelam hydrochloride is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus . 1.3 Limitations of Use Colesevelam hydrochloride should not be used for the treatment of type 1 diabetes or for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis. Colesevelam hydrochloride has not been studied in Fredrickson Type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Obtain lipid parameters, including serum triglyceride (TG) levels, before starting colesevelam hydrochloride ( 2.1 ). The recommended dosage for adults and for boys and postmenarchal girls aged 10 to 17 years with primary hyperlipidemia is 3.75 grams daily. The recommended dosage for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus is 3.75 grams daily. Colesevelam hydrochloride should be taken as follows ( 2.2 , 2.4 ): Tablets Take 6 tablets once daily or 3 tablets twice daily with a meal and liquid. For Oral Suspension Take one packet once daily with a meal. To prepare, empty the entire contents of one packet into a glass or cup. Add 1 cup of water, fruit juice, or diet soft drinks. Stir well and drink. 2.1 Testing Prior to Initiation of Colesevelam Hydrochloride Obtain lipid parameters, including triglyceride (TG) levels, before starting colesevelam hydrochloride. Colesevelam hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with TG levels >500 mg/dL [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Primary Hyperlipidemia and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus The recommended dosage of colesevelam hydrochloride for adults and for boys and postmenarchal girls aged 10 to 17 years with primary hyperlipidemia is 3.75 grams daily. The recommended dosage of colesevelam hydrochloride for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus is 3.75 grams daily. Colesevelam hydrochloride should be taken as follows: Tablets Take 6 tablets once daily or 3 tablets twice daily. Due to tablet size, colesevelam hydrochloride for oral suspension is recommended for use in the pediatric population. For Oral Suspension Take one packet once daily. 2.3 Important Dosing Information for Primary Hyperlipidemia Colesevelam hydrochloride can be dosed at the same time as a statin, or colesevelam hydrochloride and the statin can be dosed apart . Monitor lipid levels within 4 to 6 weeks after initiation of colesevelam hydrochloride. 2.4 Administration Instructions Tablets Take colesevelam hydrochloride tablets with a meal and liquid. For patients with difficulty swallowing tablets, use colesevelam hydrochloride for oral suspension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. For Oral Suspension To prepare, empty the entire contents of one packet into a glass or cup. Add 1 cup (8 ounces) of water, fruit juice, or diet soft drinks. Stir well and drink. Take colesevelam hydrochloride oral suspension with meals. Do not take colesevelam hydrochloride oral suspension in its dry form. Due to tablet size, colesevelam hydrochloride for oral suspension is recommended for use in the pediatric population.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Product: 50090-6995 NDC: 50090-6995-0 90 TABLET, FILM COATED in a BOTTLE

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0127afae-8d8d-43f2-97f9-4f99f6947e81
