Name: Conestat alfa

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RUCONEST is a C1 esterase inhibitor [recombinant] indicated for the treatment of acute attacks in adult and adolescent patients with hereditary angioedema (HAE). Limitation of Use: Effectiveness was not established in HAE patients with laryngeal attacks. RUCONEST is a C1 esterase inhibitor [recombinant] indicated for the treatment of acute attacks in adult and adolescent patients with hereditary angioedema (HAE). ( 1 ) Limitation of Use: Effectiveness was not established in HAE patients with laryngeal attacks.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous use after reconstitution only. For Intravenous Use Only. Reconstitute each vial (2100 U) by adding 14 mL sterile Water for Injection per vial to obtain a solution of 150 U per mL. ( 2.3 ) Administer the reconstituted solution at room temperature as a slow intravenous injection over approximately 5 minutes. ( 2.4 ) Appropriately trained patients may self-administer upon recognition of an HAE attack. ( 2.4 ) Recommended dose of RUCONEST for an acute attack Body weight RUCONEST Dose for Intravenous Injection Volume (mL) of Reconstituted Solution (150 U/mL) to be Administered < 84 kg 50 U per kg Body weight in kg divided by 3 ≥ 84 kg 4200 U (2 vials) 28 mL If the attack symptoms persist, an additional (second) dose can be administered at the recommended dose level. Do not exceed 4200 U per dose. No more than two doses should be administered within a 24-hour period. 2.1 Recommended Dosing Training on how to administer RUCONEST should be conducted by a qualified healthcare professional experienced in the treatment of HAE. Appropriately trained patients may self-administer upon recognition of an HAE attack. The recommended dose of RUCONEST is 50 U per kg with a maximum of 4200 U to be administered as a slow intravenous injection over approximately 5 minutes. If the attack symptoms persist, an additional (second) dose can be administered at the recommended dose level. Do not exceed 4200 U per dose. No more than two doses should be administered within a 24-hour period. Table 1. Recommended dose of RUCONEST for an acute attack Body Weight RUCONEST Dose for Intravenous Injection Volume (mL) of Reconstituted Solution (150 U/mL) to be Administered < 84 kg 50 U per kg Body weight in kg divided by 3 ≥ 84 kg 4200 U (2 vials) 28 mL 2.2 Preparation and Handling Store RUCONEST in the original carton and protect from light prior to reconstitution. Do not use after expiration date on the product vial label. Water for Injection is not included in the RUCONEST package. Use aseptic technique to reconstitute, mix the solution, and to combine the reconstituted solution from more than one vial ( see Reconstitution [ 2.3 ] and Administration [ 2.4 ]). Do not mix or administer RUCONEST with other medicinal products or solutions. Discard all partially used vials after treatment. 2.3 Reconstitution Each package contains one single-use vial of RUCONEST. To reconstitute, the following are also required: Sterile Water for Injection (diluent) - At least 14 mL per vial of RUCONEST requiring reconstitution. Antiseptic wipe Syringe Commercially available vial adapter and syringe luer lock or large bore needle. If using a syringe with vial adapter, use a new vial adapter for each vial of RUCONEST and diluent. The procedures below are provided as general guidelines for the reconstitution and administration of RUCONEST. Ensure that the RUCONEST vial and diluent vial are at room temperature. Remove the flip caps from the RUCONEST and diluent vials. Treat the vial stoppers with the antiseptic wipe and allow to dry. Using the syringe/needle or syringe/vial adapter, withdraw 14 mL of sterile water for injection from the diluent vial. Remove the syringe and transfer the diluent to the RUCONEST vial. Add the diluent slowly to avoid forceful impact on the powder. Swirl the vial slowly to mix and avoid foaming. Repeat this procedure using another 14 mL of diluent and a second vial of RUCONEST. If the same patient is to receive more than one vial, the contents of multiple vials may be pooled into a single administration device (i.e., syringe). Inspect RUCONEST visually for particulate matter and discoloration after reconstitution and prior to administration. The reconstituted solution should be colorless, clear, and free from visible particles. Do not use if the solution is cloudy, colored, or contains particulates. RUCONEST vial is for single-use only. Use the reconstituted product immediately, or within 8 hours stored at 36ºF - 46ºF (2º - 8ºC). Discard partially used vials. Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. 2.4 Administration Do not mix RUCONEST with other medicinal products. Administer RUCONEST by a separate infusion line. Use aseptic technique when administering RUCONEST. Follow recommended venipuncture guidelines for initiating intravenous therapy. Administer RUCONEST by slow intravenous injection over approximately 5 minutes. For self-administration, provide the patient with instructions and training for intravenous injection outside of a clinic setting so patients may self-administer RUCONEST upon recognition of symptoms of an HAE attack [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. After administration, immediately discard any unused product and all used disposable supplies in accordance with local requirements.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied RUCONEST is supplied in single-use 25 mL glass vials with a stopper (siliconized chlorobutyl rubber) and a flip-off seal (aluminum and colored plastic). Each carton contains one single-use vial. Each vial contains 2100 U rhC1INH lyophilized powder for reconstitution for injection. 16.2 Storage and Handling Store in the original package in order to protect from light. Shelf life: 48 months when stored at 36ºF - 77ºF (2ºC - 25ºC). Do not freeze. Each vial of RUCONEST should be reconstituted with 14 mL Water for Injection (not supplied). The reconstituted solution contains 150 U/mL rhC1INH and is clear and colorless. Each vial of RUCONEST is for single use only. RUCONEST contains no preservative. Any product that has been reconstituted should be used immediately, or within 8 hours stored at 36ºF - 46ºF (2ºC - 8ºC). Discard partially used vials after treatment.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 66d3fecb-32a4-7781-e053-2a91aa0a83ca
