Name: Crotamiton

introduction: Pruradik ™ (crotamiton USP 10%) is a scabicidal and antipruritic agent as a lotion for topical use only. Crotamiton is a colorless to slightly yellowish oil, having a faint amine-like odor. It is miscible with alcohol and with methanol. Crotamiton is a mixture of the cis and trans isomers. Its molecular weight is 203. 28. Crotamiton is N-ethyl-N(o-methyl-phenyl) 2-butenamide and its structural formula is: Pruradik lotion contains crotamiton USP 10% (100mg/ml) in a creamy lotion base containing purified water, light mineral oil, propylene glycol, cetearyl alcohol (and) cetearth-20, cetyl alcohol, lanolin, benzyl alcohol, carbomer 971P, sodium hydroxide with citric acid (for pH adjustment). image description INDICATIONS AND USAGE: For eradication of scabies ( Sarcoptes scabiei ) and for symptomatic treatment of pruritic skin.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE. In Scabies: Thoroughly massage into the skin of the whole body, from the chin down, paying particular attention to all folds and creases. A second application is advisable 24 hours later. Clothing and bed linen should be changed the next morning. A cleansing bath should be taken 48 hours after the last application. In Pruritis: Massage gently into affected areas until medication is completely absorbed. Repeat as needed. DIRECTIONS FOR PATIENTS WITH SCABIES: 1. Take a routine bath or shower. Thoroughly massage Pruradik ™ lotion into the skin from the chin to the toes including folds and creases. 2. Put Pruradik lotion under fingernails after trimming the fingernails short, because scabies are likely to remain there. A toothbrush can be used to apply the Pruradik lotion under the fingernails. Immediately after use, the toothbrush should be wrapped in paper and thrown away. Use of the brush in the mouth could lead to poisoning. 3. A second application is advisable 24 hours leater. 4. Clothing and bed linen should be changed the next day. Contaminated clothing and bed linen may be dry-cleaned or washed in the hot cycle of the washing machine. 5. A cleansing bath should be taken 48 hours after the last application.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED: Pruradik (crotamitan USP) lotion, 10% is available in: 237 gm ( NDC : 73352-051-10) Rx ONLY Mfd For: Trifluent Pharma, LLC San Antonio TX 78213 Rev 01 May 2025 WARNINGS: If severe irritation or sensitization develops, treatment with this product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 3699175f-bfc8-a047-e063-6394a90a80d1
