Name: Cyclophosphamide

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyclophosphamide for injection is an alkylating drug indicated for treatment of adults and pediatric patients with: Malignant Diseases: malignant lymphomas: Hodgkin’s disease, lymphocytic lymphoma, mixed-cell type lymphoma, histiocytic lymphoma, Burkitt’s lymphoma; multiple myeloma, leukemias, mycosis fungoides, neuroblastoma, adenocarcinoma of ovary, retinoblastoma, breast carcinoma ( 1.1 ) Minimal Change Nephrotic Syndrome in Pediatric Patients: biopsy proven minimal change nephrotic syndrome patients who failed to adequately respond to or are unable to tolerate adrenocorticosteroid therapy ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: The safety and effectiveness for the treatment of nephrotic syndrome in adults or other renal disease has not been established. (1.2) 1.1 Malignant Diseases Cyclophosphamide for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with: malignant lymphomas (Stages III and IV of the Ann Arbor staging system), Hodgkin's disease, lymphocytic lymphoma (nodular or diffuse), mixed-cell type lymphoma, histiocytic lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma multiple myeloma leukemias: chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic granulocytic leukemia (it is usually ineffective in acute blastic crisis), acute myelogenous and monocytic leukemia, acute lymphoblastic (stem-cell) leukemia (cyclophosphamide given during remission is effective in prolonging its duration) mycosis fungoides (advanced disease) neuroblastoma (disseminated disease) adenocarcinoma of the ovary retinoblastoma carcinoma of the breast Cyclophosphamide, although effective alone in susceptible malignancies, is more frequently used concurrently or sequentially with other antineoplastic drugs. 1.2 Minimal Change Nephrotic Syndrome in Pediatric Patients Cyclophosphamide for injection is indicated for the treatment of biopsy proven minimal change nephrotic syndrome in pediatrics patients who failed to adequately respond to or are unable to tolerate adrenocorticosteroid therapy. Limitations of Use: The safety and effectiveness of cyclophosphamide for injection for the treatment of nephrotic syndrome in adults or other renal disease has not been established.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION During or immediately after cyclophosphamide for injection administration, administer adequate amounts of fluid to reduce the risk of urinary tract toxicity ( 2.1 ). Malignant Diseases: Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) Intravenous: Initial course for patients with no hematologic deficiency: 40 mg per kg to 50 mg per kg in divided doses over 2 to 5 days. Other regimens include 10 mg per kg to 15 mg per kg given every 7 to 10 days or 3 mg per kg to 5 mg per kg twice weekly. Oral: 1 mg per kg per day to 5 mg per kg per day for both initial and maintenance dosing. Minimal Change Nephrotic Syndrome in Pediatric Patients ( 2.3 ) Oral: 2 mg per kg daily for 8 to 12 weeks (maximum cumulative dose 168 mg per kg). Treatment beyond 90 days increases the probability of sterility in males. ( 8.4 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions During or immediately after the administration of cyclophosphamide for injection, adequate amounts of fluid should be ingested or infused to force diuresis in order to reduce the risk of urinary tract toxicity. Therefore, cyclophosphamide for injection should be administered in the morning. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Malignant Diseases Adults and Pediatric Patients Intravenous Use When used as the only oncolytic drug therapy, the recommended dosage for the initial course of cyclophosphamide for injection for patients with no hematologic deficiency is 40 mg per kg to 50 mg per kg given intravenously in divided doses over a period of 2 to 5 days. Other intravenous regimens include 10 mg per kg to 15 mg per kg given every 7 to 10 days or 3 mg per kg to 5 mg per kg twice weekly. Oral Use The recommended dosage for oral cyclophosphamide is 1 mg per kg per day to 5 mg per kg per day for both initial and maintenance dosing. Adjust the dosage of cyclophosphamide for injection based on the specific regimen administered, response to treatment, myelosuppression or other adverse reactions, and patient risk factors [see Warning and Precautions (5)]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Minimal Change Nephrotic Syndrome in Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage is 2 mg per kg orally once daily for 8 to 12 weeks (maximum cumulative dose 168 mg per kg) is recommended. Treatment beyond 90 days increases the probability of sterility in males [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . 2.4 Preparation, Handling and Administration Cyclophosphamide for injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1 Caution should be exercised when handling and preparing cyclophosphamide for injection. To minimize the risk of dermal exposure, always wear gloves when handling vials containing cyclophosphamide for injection. Cyclophosphamide for Injection Intravenous Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use cyclophosphamide vials if there are signs of melting. Melted cyclophosphamide is a clear or yellowish viscous liquid usually found as a connected phase or in droplets in the affected vials. Cyclophosphamide for injection does not contain any antimicrobial preservative and thus care must be taken to assure the sterility of prepared solutions. Use aseptic technique. For Direct Intravenous Injection Reconstitute cyclophosphamide for injection with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP only, using the volumes listed below in Table 1. Shake the vial vigorously to dissolve the drug completely. Do not use Sterile Water for Injection, USP because it results in a hypotonic solution and should not be injected directly. Discard unused solution. Table 1: Reconstitution for Direct Intravenous Injection Strength Volume of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Cyclophosphamide Concentration 500 mg 25 mL 20 mg per mL 1 g 50 mL 2 g 100 mL For Intravenous Infusion Reconstitution of Cyclophosphamide for Injection: Reconstitute cyclophosphamide for injection using 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or Sterile Water for Injection, USP with the volume of diluent listed below in Table 2. Add the diluent to the vial and shake the vial vigorously to dissolve the drug completely. Discard unused solution. Table 2: Reconstitution in preparation for Intravenous Infusion Strength Volume of Diluent Cyclophosphamide Concentration 500 mg 25 mL 20 mg per mL 1 g 50 mL 2 g 100 mL Dilution of Reconstituted Cyclophosphamide for Injection: Further dilute the reconstituted cyclophosphamide for injection solution to a minimum concentration of 2 mg per mL with any of the following diluents: 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP To reduce the likelihood of adverse reactions that appear to be administration rate-dependent (e.g., facial swelling, headache, nasal congestion, scalp burning), cyclophosphamide should be injected or infused very slowly. Duration of the infusion also should be appropriate for the volume and type of carrier fluid to be infused. Storage of Reconstituted and Diluted Cyclophosphamide Solution: If not used immediately, for microbiological integrity, cyclophosphamide solutions should be stored as described in Table 3: Table 3: Storage of Cyclophosphamide Solutions Diluent Storage Room Temperature Refrigerated Reconstituted Solution (Without Further Dilution) 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP up to 24 hrs Up to 6 days Sterile Water for Injection, USP Do not store; use immediately Diluted Solutions 1 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP up to 24 hrs up to 6 days 5% Dextrose Injection, USP up to 24 hrs up to 36 hrs 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP up to 24 hrs up to 36 hrs 1 Storage time is the total time cyclophosphamide is in solution including the time it is reconstituted in 0.9% Sterile Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or Sterile Water for Injection, USP. Reconstituted Solution for Oral Administration Liquid preparations of cyclophosphamide for oral administration may be prepared by dissolving cyclophosphamide for injection in Aromatic Elixir, National Formulary (NF). Store preparations under refrigeration in glass containers and used within 14 days. See the prescribing information for cyclophosphamide for oral use for additional dosage information.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Cyclophosphamide for Injection, USP (lyophilized powder) is a sterile white cake containing cyclophosphamide and mannitol and is supplied in single dose vials. Cyclophosphamide for Injection, USP NDC 39822-0250-1 500 mg per vial, carton of 1 NDC 39822-0255-1 1 g per vial, carton of 1 NDC 39822-0260-1 2 g per vial, carton of 1 Store vials at or below 25°C (77°F). During transport or storage of cyclophosphamide vials, temperature influences can lead to melting of the active ingredient, cyclophosphamide [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Cyclophosphamide is a hazardous product. Follow special handling and disposal procedures. 1

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 02e64046-687d-449e-e063-6294a90a6c32
