Name: Dabigatran

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dabigatran etexilate capsules are a direct thrombin inhibitor indicated: • To reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (1.1) • For the treatment of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) in adult patients who have been treated with a parenteral anticoagulant for 5 to 10 days (1.2) • To reduce the risk of recurrence of DVT and PE in adult patients who have been previously treated (1.3) • For the prophylaxis of DVT and PE in patients who have undergone hip replacement surgery (1.4) 1.1 Reduction of Risk of Stroke and Systemic Embolism in Non-valvular Atrial Fibrillation in Adult Patients Dabigatran etexilate capsules are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. 1.2 Treatment of Deep Venous Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism in Adult Patients Dabigatran etexilate capsules are indicated for the treatment of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in adult patients who have been treated with a parenteral anticoagulant for 5 to 10 days. 1.3 Reduction in the Risk of Recurrence of Deep Venous Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism in Adult Patients Dabigatran etexilate capsules are indicated to reduce the risk of recurrence of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in adult patients who have been previously treated. 1.4 Prophylaxis of Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism Following Hip Replacement Surgery in Adult Patients Dabigatran etexilate capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in adult patients who have undergone hip replacement surgery. Pediatric use information is approved for Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) capsules. However, due to Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Non-valvular Atrial Fibrillation in Adult Patients: o For patients with CrCl >30 mL/min: 150 mg orally, twice daily (2.2) o For patients with CrCl 15 to 30 mL/min: 75 mg orally, twice daily (2.2) • Treatment of DVT and PE in Adult Patients : o For patients with CrCl >30 mL/min: 150 mg orally, twice daily after 5 to 10 days of parenteral anticoagulation (2.2) • Reduction in the Risk of Recurrence of DVT and PE in Adult Patients : o For patients with CrCl >30 mL/min: 150 mg orally, twice daily after previous treatment (2.2) • Prophylaxis of DVT and PE Following Hip Replacement Surgery in Adult Patients : o For patients with CrCl >30 mL/min: 110 mg orally first day, then 220 mg once daily (2.2) • Dabigatran etexilate capsules are NOT substitutable on a milligram-to-milligram basis with other dabigatran etexilate dosage forms • Review recommendations for converting to or from other oral or parenteral anticoagulants (2.6, 2.7) • Temporarily discontinue dabigatran etexilate capsules before invasive or surgical procedures when possible, then restart promptly (2.8) 2.1 Important Dosage Information Dabigatran etexilate is available in different dosage forms and not all dosage forms are approved for the same indications and age groups. In addition, there are differences between the dosage forms with respect to dosing due to differences in bioavailability. Do not substitute different dosage forms on a milligram-to-milligram basis and do not combine more than one dosage form to achieve the total dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.2 Recommended Dabigatran Etexilate Capsules Dosage for Adults Indication Dosage Reduction in Risk of Stroke and Systemic Embolism in Non-valvular AF CrCl >30 mL/min: 150 mg twice daily CrCl 15 to 30 mL/min: 75 mg twice daily CrCl <15 mL/min or on dialysis: Dosing recommendations cannot be provided CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min with concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors: Reduce dosage to 75 mg twice daily if given with P-gp inhibitors dronedarone or systemic ketoconazole. CrCl <30 mL/min with concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors: Avoid coadministration Treatment of DVT and PE Reduction in the Risk of Recurrence of DVT and PE CrCl >30 mL/min: 150 mg twice daily CrCl ≤30 mL/min or on dialysis: Dosing recommendations cannot be provided CrCl <50 mL/min with concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors: Avoid coadministration Prophylaxis of DVT and PE Following Hip Replacement Surgery CrCl >30 mL/min: 110 mg for first day, then 220 mg once daily CrCl ≤30 mL/min or on dialysis: Dosing recommendations cannot be provided CrCl <50 mL/min with concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors: Avoid coadministration Reduction of Risk of Stroke and Systemic Embolism in Non-valvular Atrial Fibrillation in Adult Patients For patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) >30 mL/min, the recommended dosage of dabigatran etexilate capsules are 150 mg taken orally, twice daily. For patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 30 mL/min), the recommended dosage of dabigatran etexilate capsules are 75 mg twice daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Dosing recommendations for patients with a CrCl <15 mL/min or on dialysis cannot be provided. Treatment of Deep Venous Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism in Adult Patients For patients with CrCl >30 mL/min, the recommended dosage of dabigatran etexilate capsules are 150 mg taken orally, twice daily, after 5 to 10 days of parenteral anticoagulation. Dosing recommendations for patients with a CrCl ≤30 mL/min or on dialysis cannot be provided [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Reduction in the Risk of Recurrence of Deep Venous Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism in Adult Patients For patients with CrCl >30 mL/min, the recommended dosage of dabigatran etexilate capsules are 150 mg taken orally, twice daily after previous treatment. Dosing recommendations for patients with a CrCl ≤30 mL/min or on dialysis cannot be provided [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Prophylaxis of Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism in Adult Patients Following Hip Replacement Surgery For patients with CrCl >30 mL/min, the recommended dosage of dabigatran etexilate capsules are 110 mg taken orally 1 to 4 hours after surgery and after hemostasis has been achieved, then 220 mg taken once daily for 28 to 35 days. If dabigatran etexilate capsules is not started on the day of surgery, after hemostasis has been achieved initiate treatment with 220 mg once daily. Dosing recommendations for patients with a CrCl ≤30 mL/min or on dialysis cannot be provided [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2, 12.3)] . Pediatric use information is approved for Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) capsules. However, due to Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Adult patients with renal impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of treatment with dabigatran etexilate capsules. Periodically assess renal function as clinically indicated (i.e., more frequently in clinical situations that may be associated with a decline in renal function) and adjust therapy accordingly. Discontinue dabigatran etexilate capsules in patients who develop acute renal failure while on dabigatran etexilate and consider alternative anticoagulant therapy. Generally, in adult patients, the extent of anticoagulation does not need to be assessed. When necessary, use aPTT or ECT, and not INR, to assess for anticoagulant activity in adult patients on dabigatran etexilate capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . Reduction of Risk of Stroke and Systemic Embolism in Non-valvular Atrial Fibrillation In patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min), concomitant use of the P-gp inhibitor dronedarone or systemic ketoconazole can be expected to produce dabigatran exposure similar to that observed in severe renal impairment. Reduce the dosage of dabigatran etexilate capsules to 75 mg twice daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Treatment and Reduction in the Risk of Recurrence of Deep Venous Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism Dosing recommendations for patients with CrCl ≤30 mL/min cannot be provided. Avoid use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors in patients with CrCl <50 mL/min [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Prophylaxis of Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism Following Hip Replacement Surgery Dosing recommendations for patients with CrCl ≤30 mL/min or on dialysis cannot be provided. Avoid use of concomitant P-gp inhibitors in patients with CrCl <50 mL/min [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2, 12.3)] . Pediatric patients with renal impairment Pediatric use information is approved for Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) capsules. However, due to Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.5 Administration Dabigatran etexilate capsules should be swallowed whole. Dabigatran etexilate capsules should be taken with a full glass of water. Breaking, chewing, or emptying the contents of the capsule can result in increased exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If a dose of dabigatran etexilate capsules are not taken at the scheduled time, the dose should be taken as soon as possible on the same day; the missed dose should be skipped if it cannot be taken at least 6 hours before the next scheduled dose. The dose of dabigatran etexilate capsules should not be doubled to make up for a missed dose. Consider administration with food if gastrointestinal distress occurs with dabigatran etexilate capsules. 2.6 Converting from or to Warfarin When converting patients from warfarin therapy to dabigatran etexilate capsules, discontinue warfarin and start dabigatran etexilate capsules when the INR is below 2. When converting from dabigatran etexilate capsules to warfarin, adjust the starting time of warfarin as follows: Adults For CrCl ≥50 mL/min, start warfarin 3 days before discontinuing dabigatran etexilate capsules. For CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min, start warfarin 2 days before discontinuing dabigatran etexilate capsules. For CrCl 15 to 30 mL/min, start warfarin 1 day before discontinuing dabigatran etexilate capsules. For CrCl <15 mL/min, no recommendations can be made. Because dabigatran etexilate capsules can increase INR, the INR will better reflect warfarin’s effect only after dabigatran etexilate capsules has been stopped for at least 2 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Pediatric use information is approved for Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) capsules. However, due to Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.7 Converting from or to Parenteral Anticoagulants For adult patients currently receiving a parenteral anticoagulant, start dabigatran etexilate capsules 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next dose of the parenteral drug was to have been administered or at the time of discontinuation of a continuously administered parenteral drug (e.g., intravenous unfractionated heparin). For adult patients currently taking dabigatran etexilate capsules, wait 12 hours (CrCl ≥30 mL/min) or 24 hours (CrCl <30 mL/min) after the last dose of dabigatran etexilate capsules before initiating treatment with a parenteral anticoagulant [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Pediatric use information is approved for Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) capsules. However, due to Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.8 Discontinuation for Surgery and Other Interventions If possible, discontinue dabigatran etexilate capsules in adults 1 to 2 days (CrCl ≥50 mL/min) or 3 to 5 days (CrCl <50 mL/min) before invasive or surgical procedures because of the increased risk of bleeding. Consider longer times for patients undergoing major surgery, spinal puncture, or placement of a spinal or epidural catheter or port, in whom complete hemostasis may be required [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If surgery cannot be delayed, there is an increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . This risk of bleeding should be weighed against the urgency of intervention [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] . Use a specific reversal agent (idarucizumab) in case of emergency surgery or urgent procedures when reversal of the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran is needed in adults. Efficacy and safety of idarucizumab have not been established in pediatric patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Refer to the idarucizumab prescribing information for additional information. Restart dabigatran etexilate capsules as soon as medically appropriate. Pediatric use information is approved for Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) capsules. However, due to Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Dabigatran etexilate capsules 75 mg are with white opaque cap / white opaque body, size ‘2’ HPMC capsules having imprinting “A” on cap with black ink and “329” on body with black ink, filled with off white to yellowish pellets. The capsules are supplied in the packages listed: Bottle of 60 capsules with child resistant closure, NDC 46708-634-60 Carton of 60 capsules (10 x 6 unit-dose blister cards), NDC 46708-634-06 Dabigatran etexilate capsules 110 mg are with light blue opaque cap / light blue opaque body, size ‘1’ HPMC capsules having imprinting “A” on cap with black ink and “192” on body with black ink, filled with off white to yellowish pellets. The capsules are supplied in the packages listed: Bottle of 60 capsules with child resistant closure, NDC 46708-635-60 Carton of 60 capsules (10 x 6 unit-dose blister cards), NDC 46708-635-06 Dabigatran etexilate capsules 150 mg are with light blue opaque cap / white opaque body, size ‘0’ HPMC capsules having imprinting “A” on cap with black ink and “316” on body with black ink, filled with off white to yellowish pellets. The capsules are supplied in the packages listed: Bottle of 60 capsules with child resistant closure, NDC 46708-636-60 Carton of 60 capsules (10 x 6 unit-dose blister cards), NDC 46708-636-06 Bottles Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Once opened, the product must be used within 4 months. Keep the bottle tightly closed. Store in the original package to protect from moisture. Blisters Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Store in the original package to protect from moisture.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 13649035-a498-4e31-a7ea-8b18cedceca7
