Name: Dalfampridine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dalfampridine extended-release tablets are indicated as a treatment to improve walking in adult patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). This was demonstrated by an increase in walking speed [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Dalfampridine is a potassium channel blocker indicated to improve walking in adult patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). This was demonstrated by an increase in walking speed ( 1 , 14 ).

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The maximum recommended dosage is 10 mg twice daily (approximately 12 hours apart). There is no evidence of additional benefit with doses greater than 10 mg twice daily. Adverse reactions, including seizures, were more frequent at higher doses. (2.1) Take with or without food. Administer tablets whole; do not divide, crush, chew, or dissolve (2.2) Patients should not take double or extra doses if they miss a dose. (2.2) Estimated creatinine clearance (CrCl) should be known before initiating treatment with dalfampridine extended-release tablets. In patients with mild renal impairment (CrCl 51 to 80 mL/min), dalfampridine extended-release tablets may reach plasma levels associated with a greater risk of seizures, and the potential benefits of dalfampridine extended-release tablets should be carefully considered against the risk of seizures in these patients (2.3, 5.2, 8.6) 2.1 Dosage Information The maximum recommended dosage of dalfampridine extended-release tablet is one 10 mg tablet twice daily and should not be exceeded. Take doses approximately 12 hours apart. There is no evidence of additional benefit at doses greater than 10 mg twice daily. Adverse reactions, including seizures, and discontinuations because of adverse reactions were more frequent at higher doses. 2.2 Administration Instructions Dalfampridine extended-release tablet can be taken with or without food. Administer tablets whole; do not divide, crush, chew, or dissolve dalfampridine extended-release tablets. If a dose is missed, patients should not take double or extra doses. 2.3 Renal Monitoring Prior to and During Treatment Estimated creatinine clearance (CrCl) should be known before initiating treatment with dalfampridine extended-release tablets, and monitored at least annually during treatment with dalfampridine extended-release tablets. CrCl can be estimated using the following equation (multiply by 0.85 for women): dalfampridine-equa 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with mild renal impairment (CrCl 51 to 80 mL/min), dalfampridine extended-release tablet plasma levels may approach those seen at a dose of 15 mg twice daily, a dose that is 1.5 times the maximum recommended dose and may be associated with an increased risk of seizures. As mild renal impairment is common after age 50, estimating CrCl is particularly important in these patients. The potential benefits of dalfampridine extended-release tablet should be carefully considered against the risk of seizures in these patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Dalfampridine extended-release tablet is contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (CrCl≤50 mL/min).

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Dalfampridine extended-release tablets, 10 mg are white to off white, biconvex, oval shaped, beveled edge, film coated tablets, debossed “D 10” on one side and plain on other side and are available in bottles of 60. NDC 51407-876-60 bottles of 60 tablets Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted between 15ºC to 30ºC (59ºF to 86ºF) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1134ac0f-59c1-a20b-e063-6294a90affcc
