Name: Dapagliflozin

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FARXIGA (dapagliflozin) is indicated: • To reduce the risk of sustained eGFR decline, end-stage kidney disease, cardiovascular death, and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with chronic kidney disease at risk of progression. • To reduce the risk of cardiovascular death, hospitalization for heart failure, and urgent heart failure visit in adults with heart failure. • To reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and either established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. • As an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Limitations of Use • FARXIGA is not recommended for use to improve glycemic control in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • FARXIGA is not recommended for use to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with an eGFR less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . FARXIGA is likely to be ineffective in this setting based upon its mechanism of action. • FARXIGA is not recommended for the treatment of chronic kidney disease in patients with polycystic kidney disease or patients requiring or with a recent history of immunosuppressive therapy for kidney disease. FARXIGA is not expected to be effective in these populations. FARXIGA is a sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor indicated: • To reduce the risk of sustained eGFR decline, end-stage kidney disease, cardiovascular death, and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with chronic kidney disease at risk of progression. (1) • To reduce the risk of cardiovascular death, hospitalization for heart failure, and urgent heart failure visit in adults with heart failure. (1) • To reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and either established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors. (1) • As an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. (1) Limitations of use: • Not recommended for use to improve glycemic control in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. (1) • Not recommended for use to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with an eGFR less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . FARXIGA is likely to be ineffective in this setting based upon its mechanism of action. (1) • Not recommended for the treatment of chronic kidney disease in patients with polycystic kidney disease or patients requiring or with a recent history of immunosuppressive therapy for the treatment of kidney disease. FARXIGA is not expected to be effective in these populations. (1)

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Assess volume status and correct volume depletion before initiating. (2.1) eGFR (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Recommended Dose eGFR 45 or greater To improve glycemic control, the recommended starting dose is 5 mg orally once daily. Dose can be increased to 10 mg orally once daily for additional glycemic control. For all other indications, the recommended starting dose is 10 mg orally once daily. eGFR 25 to less than 45 10 mg orally once daily eGFR less than 25 Initiation is not recommended; however, patients may continue 10 mg orally once daily to reduce the risk of eGFR decline, ESKD, CV death and hHF. • Withhold FARXIGA for at least 3 days, if possible, prior to major surgery or procedures associated with prolonged fasting. (2.3) 2.1 Prior to Initiation of FARXIGA Assess renal function prior to initiation of FARXIGA therapy and then as clinically indicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Assess volume status. In patients with volume depletion, correct this condition before initiating FARXIGA [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage See Table 1 for dosage recommendations based on estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Table 1: Recommended Dosage eGFR (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Recommended Dose eGFR 45 or greater To improve glycemic control, the recommended starting dose is 5 mg orally once daily. Dose can be increased to 10 mg orally once daily for additional glycemic control FARXIGA is not recommended for use to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with an eGFR less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . FARXIGA is likely to be ineffective in this setting based upon its mechanism of action. . For all other indications, the recommended starting dose is 10 mg orally once daily. eGFR 25 to less than 45 10 mg orally once daily . eGFR less than 25 Initiation is not recommended; however, patients may continue 10 mg orally once daily to reduce the risk of eGFR decline, ESKD, CV death and hHF. hHF: hospitalization for heart failure, CV: Cardiovascular, ESKD: End Stage Kidney Disease 2.3 Temporary Interruption for Surgery Withhold FARXIGA for at least 3 days, if possible, prior to major surgery or procedures associated with prolonged fasting. Resume FARXIGA when the patient is clinically stable and has resumed oral intake [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Product: 50090-3481 NDC: 50090-3481-0 30 TABLET, FILM COATED in a BOTTLE, PLASTIC Product: 50090-3482 NDC: 50090-3482-0 30 TABLET, FILM COATED in a BOTTLE, PLASTIC

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 01f90c94-71cb-4a1f-81ff-8004b850529b
