Name: Dasatinib

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dasatinib tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in chronic phase. Chronic, accelerated or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase Ph+ CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy including imatinib. Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy. Pediatric use information is approved for Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's Sprycel (dasatinib) tablets. However, due to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. Dasatinib tablet is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of newly diagnosed adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in chronic phase. ( 1 , 14 ) adults with chronic, accelerated or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase Ph+ CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy including imatinib. ( 1 , 14 ) adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy. ( 1 , 14 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chronic phase CML in adults: 100 mg once daily. ( 2 ) Accelerated phase CML, myeloid or lymphoid blast phase CML or Ph+ ALL in adults: 140 mg once daily. ( 2 ) Administer orally, with or without a meal. Do not crush, cut or chew tablets. ( 2 ) 2.1 Dosage of Dasatinib in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage of dasatinib for chronic phase CML in adults is 100 mg administered orally once daily. The recommended starting dosage of dasatinib for accelerated phase CML, myeloid or lymphoid blast phase CML or Ph+ ALL in adults is 140 mg administered orally once daily. Tablets should not be crushed, cut or chewed; they should be swallowed whole. Dasatinib can be taken with or without a meal, either in the morning or in the evening. Pediatric use information is approved for Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's Sprycel (dasatinib) tablets. However, due to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.3 Dose Modification Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Avoid the use of concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers and St. John's wort. If patients must be coadministered a strong CYP3A4 inducer, consider a dasatinib dose increase. If the dose of dasatinib is increased, monitor the patient carefully for toxicity [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Avoid the use of concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors and grapefruit juice. Recommend selecting an alternate concomitant medication with no or minimal enzyme inhibition potential, if possible. If dasatinib must be administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, consider a dose decrease to: 40 mg daily for patients taking dasatinib 140 mg daily. 20 mg daily for patients taking dasatinib 100 mg daily. 20 mg daily for patients taking dasatinib 70 mg daily. For patients taking dasatinib 60 mg or 40 mg daily, consider interrupting dasatinib until the inhibitor is discontinued. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after the inhibitor is stopped before reinitiating dasatinib. These reduced doses of dasatinib are predicted to adjust the area under the curve (AUC) to the range observed without CYP3A4 inhibitors; however, clinical data are not available with these dose adjustments in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If dasatinib is not tolerated after dose reduction, either discontinue the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or interrupt dasatinib until the inhibitor is discontinued. Allow a washout period of approximately 1 week after the inhibitor is stopped before the dasatinib dose is increased [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Pediatric use information is approved for Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's Sprycel (dasatinib) tablets. However, due to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.4 Dose Escalation in Adults with CML and Ph+ ALL For adult patients with CML and Ph+ ALL, consider dose escalation to 140 mg once daily (chronic phase CML) or 180 mg once daily (advanced phase CML and Ph+ ALL) in patients who do not achieve a hematologic or cytogenetic response at the recommended starting dosage. Pediatric use information is approved for Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's Sprycel (dasatinib) tablets. However, due to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.5 Dose Adjustment for Adverse Reactions Myelosuppression In clinical studies, myelosuppression was managed by dose interruption, dose reduction or discontinuation of study therapy. Hematopoietic growth factor has been used in patients with resistant myelosuppression. Guidelines for dose modifications for adult patients are summarized in Table 3. Table 3 Dose Adjustments for Neutropenia and Thrombocytopenia in Adults *ANC: absolute neutrophil count Chronic Phase CML (starting dose 100 mg once daily) ANC * < 0.5 × 10 9 /L or Platelets < 50 × 10 9 /L 1. Stop dasatinib until ANC ≥ 1 × 10 9 /L and platelets ≥ 50 × 10 9 /L. 2. Resume treatment with dasatinib at the original starting dose if recovery occurs in ≤ 7 days. 3. If platelets < 25 × 10 9 /L or recurrence of ANC < 0.5 × 10 9 /L for > 7 days, repeat Step 1 and resume dasatinib at a reduced dose of 80 mg once daily for second episode. For third episode, further reduce dose to 50 mg once daily (for newly diagnosed patients) or discontinue dasatinib (for patients resistant or intolerant to prior therapy including imatinib). Accelerated Phase CML, Blast Phase CML and Ph+ ALL (starting dose 140 mg once daily) ANC * < 0.5 × 10 9 /L or Platelets < 10 × 10 9 /L 1. Check if cytopenia is related to leukemia (marrow aspirate or biopsy). 2. If cytopenia is unrelated to leukemia, stop dasatinib until ANC ≥ 1 × 10 9 /L and platelets ≥ 20 × 10 9 /L and resume at the original starting dose. 3. If recurrence of cytopenia, repeat Step 1 and resume dasatinib at a reduced dose of 100 mg once daily (second episode) or 80 mg once daily (third episode). 4. If cytopenia is related to leukemia, consider dose escalation to 180 mg once daily. Non-Hematologic Adverse Reactions For adults with Ph+ CML and ALL if a severe nonhematologic adverse reaction develops with dasatinib use, treatment must be withheld until the adverse reaction has resolved or improved. Thereafter, treatment can be resumed as appropriate at a reduced dose depending on the severity and recurrence [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Pediatric use information is approved for Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's Sprycel (dasatinib) tablets. However, due to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.6 Duration of Treatment In clinical studies, treatment with dasatinib in adults with chronic phase CML was continued until disease progression or until no longer tolerated by the patient. The effect of stopping treatment on long-term disease outcome after the achievement of a cytogenetic response (including complete cytogenetic response [CCyR]) or major molecular response (MMR and MR4.5) has not been established. Dasatinib is a hazardous product. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1 Pediatric use information is approved for Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's Sprycel (dasatinib) tablets. However, due to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Dasatinib Tablets, 20 mg are white to off-white, round, film-coated tablets, debossed with '1741' on one side and plain on the other side and are supplied as follows: NDC 70710-1741-6 in bottle of 60 tablets with child-resistant closure Dasatinib Tablets, 50 mg are white to off-white, oval, film-coated tablets, debossed with '1742' on one side and plain on the other side and are supplied as follows: NDC 70710-1742-6 in bottle of 60 tablets with child-resistant closure Dasatinib Tablets, 70 mg are white to off-white, round, film-coated tablets, debossed with '1743' on one side and plain on the other side and are supplied as follows: NDC 70710-1743-6 in bottle of 60 tablets with child-resistant closure Dasatinib Tablets, 80 mg are white to off-white, oblong, film-coated tablets, debossed with '1744' on one side and plain on the other side and are supplied as follows: NDC 70710-1744-3 in bottle of 30 tablets with child-resistant closure Dasatinib Tablets, 100 mg are white to off-white, oval, film-coated tablets, debossed with '1745' on one side and plain on the other side and are supplied as follows: NDC 70710-1745-3 in bottle of 30 tablets with child-resistant closure Dasatinib Tablets, 140 mg are white to off-white, round, film-coated tablets, debossed with '1746' on one side and plain on the other side and are supplied as follows: NDC 70710-1746-3 in bottle of 30 tablets with child-resistant closure Storage Dasatinib tablets should be stored at 20°C to 25°C (68ºF to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Handling and Disposal Dasatinib is an antineoplastic product. Follow special handling and disposal procedures. 1 Personnel who are pregnant should avoid exposure to crushed or broken tablets. Dasatinib tablets consist of a core tablet, surrounded by a film coating to prevent exposure of healthcare professionals to the active substance. The use of latex or nitrile gloves for appropriate disposal when handling tablets that are inadvertently crushed or broken is recommended, to minimize the risk of dermal exposure.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 11703145-29ea-480a-9810-bc70663b783f
