Name: Denosumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Stoboclo is a RANK ligand (RANKL) inhibitor indicated for treatment: of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture ( 1.1 ) to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture ( 1.2 ) of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and women at high risk for fracture ( 1.3 ) to increase bone mass in men at high risk for fracture receiving androgen deprivation therapy for nonmetastatic prostate cancer ( 1.4 ) to increase bone mass in women at high risk for fracture receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Treatment of Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis at High Risk for Fracture Stoboclo is indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture; or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, denosumab reduces the incidence of vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fractures [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Treatment to Increase Bone Mass in Men with Osteoporosis Stoboclo is indicated for treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture; or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Treatment of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis Stoboclo is indicated for the treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and women at high risk of fracture who are either initiating or continuing systemic glucocorticoids in a daily dosage equivalent to 7.5 mg or greater of prednisone and expected to remain on glucocorticoids for at least 6 months. High risk of fracture is defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, multiple risk factors for fracture, or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.4 Treatment of Bone Loss in Men Receiving Androgen Deprivation Therapy for Prostate Cancer Stoboclo is indicated as a treatment to increase bone mass in men at high risk for fracture receiving androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for nonmetastatic prostate cancer. In these patients denosumab also reduced the incidence of vertebral fractures [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1.5 Treatment of Bone Loss in Women Receiving Adjuvant Aromatase Inhibitor Therapy for Breast Cancer Stoboclo is indicated as a treatment to increase bone mass in women at high risk for fracture receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pregnancy must be ruled out prior to administration of Stoboclo. ( 2.1 ) Before initiating Stoboclo in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease, including dialysis patients, evaluate for the presence of chronic kidney disease mineral and bone disorder with intact parathyroid hormone, serum calcium, 25(OH) vitamin D, and 1,25(OH) 2 vitamin D. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 8.6 ) Stoboclo should be administered by a healthcare provider. ( 2.3 ) Administer 60 mg every 6 months as a subcutaneous injection in the upper arm, upper thigh, or abdomen. ( 2.3 ) Instruct patients to take calcium 1000 mg daily and at least 400 IU vitamin D daily. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Pregnancy Testing Prior to Initiation of Stoboclo Pregnancy must be ruled out prior to administration of Stoboclo. Perform pregnancy testing in all females of reproductive potential prior to administration of Stoboclo. Based on findings in animals, denosumab products can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3 )] . 2.2 Laboratory Testing in Patients with Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease Prior to Initiation of Stoboclo In patients with advanced chronic kidney disease [i.e., estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ], including dialysis-dependent patients, evaluate for the presence of chronic kidney disease mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD) with intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), serum calcium, 25(OH) vitamin D, and 1,25 (OH) 2 vitamin D prior to decisions regarding Stoboclo treatment. Consider also assessing bone turnover status (serum markers of bone turnover or bone biopsy) to evaluate the underlying bone disease that may be present [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.3 Recommended Dosage Stoboclo should be administered by a healthcare provider. The recommended dose of Stoboclo is 60 mg administered as a single subcutaneous injection once every 6 months. Administer Stoboclo via subcutaneous injection in the upper arm, the upper thigh, or the abdomen. All patients should receive calcium 1000 mg daily and at least 400 IU vitamin D daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . If a dose of Stoboclo is missed, administer the injection as soon as the patient is available. Thereafter, schedule injections every 6 months from the date of the last injection. 2.4 Preparation and Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Stoboclo is a clear, colorless to pale yellow solution. Do not use if the solution is discolored or cloudy or if the solution contains particles or foreign particulate matter. Prior to administration, Stoboclo may be removed from the refrigerator and brought to room temperature up to 25°C (77°F) by standing in the original container. This generally takes 15 to 30 minutes. Do not warm Stoboclo in any other way [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ] . Instructions for Administration of Prefilled Syringe with Safety Guard IMPORTANT: To reduce the risk of accidental needle stick injury, each prefilled syringe has a safety guard that is automatically activated to cover the needle after you have given the injection. Do not pull back on the plunger rod at any time. Step 1: Remove the Needle Cap Dispose of the needle cap right away in the nearest sharps disposal container. DO NOT re-cap the prefilled syringe. Image Image Step 2: Administer Subcutaneous Injection Choose an appropriate injection site. The recommended injection sites for Stoboclo include: the outer area of the upper arms OR the upper legs (thighs) OR around the stomach area (abdomen). Inject all of the liquid by using your thumb to push the plunger rod all the way down. If the plunger rod is not fully pressed, the safety guard will not extend to cover the needle when it is removed. Image Image Step 3: Remove the prefilled syringe from the injection site After the prefilled syringe is empty, slowly remove the needle by lifting your thumb from the plunger rod until the needle is completely covered by the safety guard. Do not rub the injection site. Immediately dispose of the prefilled syringe in the nearest sharps disposal container. Image

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Stoboclo (denosumab-bmwo) injection is a clear, colorless to pale yellow solution supplied in a single-dose prefilled syringe with a safety guard. The prefilled syringe is not made with natural rubber latex. 60 mg/mL in a single-dose prefilled syringe 1 per carton NDC 72606-037-01 Storage and Handling Store Stoboclo refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in the original carton to protect from light. Do not freeze. Prior to administration, Stoboclo may be allowed to reach room temperature up to 25°C (77°F) in the original container. Once removed from the refrigerator, Stoboclo must not be exposed to temperatures above 25°C (77°F) and must be used within 30 days. Discard Stoboclo if not used within the 30 days. Do not use Stoboclo after the expiry date printed on the label. Protect Stoboclo from direct light and heat. Avoid vigorous shaking of Stoboclo.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 10b9eea3-bf70-4ff3-a0b9-54248cbfd156
