Name: Dexlansoprazole

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dexlansoprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in patients 12 years of age and older for: Healing of all grades of erosive esophagitis (EE). ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of healed EE and relief of heartburn. ( 1.2 ) Treatment of symptomatic non-erosive gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in patients 12 years of age and older for healing of all grades of erosive esophagitis (EE) for up to eight weeks. 1.2 Maintenance of Healed Erosive Esophagitis and Relief of Heartburn Dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in patients 12 years of age and older to maintain healing of EE and relief of heartburn for up to six months in adults and 16 weeks in patients 12 to 17 years of age. 1.3 Treatment of Symptomatic Non-Erosive Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in patients 12 years of age and older for the treatment of heartburn associated with symptomatic non-erosive gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) for four weeks.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended dosage in patients 12 years of age and older: See full prescribing information for complete dosing information for dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules by indication and age group and dosage adjustment in patients with hepatic impairment. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Administration Instructions ( 2.3 ) : Take without regard to food. Swallow whole; do not chew. See full prescribing information for alternative administration options. 2.1 Recommended Dosage in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Table 1: Recommended Dexlansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Dosage Regimen by Indication in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Indication Dosage of Dexlansoprazole Capsules Duration Healing of EE One 60 mg capsule once daily. Up to 8 weeks. Maintenance of Healed EE and Relief of Heartburn One 30 mg capsule once daily. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 6 months in adults and 16 weeks in patients 12 to 17 years of age. Symptomatic Non-Erosive GERD One 30 mg capsule once daily. 4 weeks. 2.2 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment for the Healing of Erosive Esophagitis For patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B), the recommended dosage is 30 mg dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsule once daily for up to eight weeks. Dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsule is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.3 Important Administration Information Take without regard to food. Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. However, if the next scheduled dose is due, do not take the missed dose, and take the next dose on time. Do not take two doses at one time to make up for a missed dose. Swallow whole; do not chew. For patients who have trouble swallowing capsules, dexlansoprazole delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered with applesauce as follows: Place one tablespoonful of applesauce into a clean container. Open capsule. Sprinkle intact granules on applesauce. Swallow applesauce and granules immediately. Do not chew granules. Do not save the applesauce and granules for later use. Alternatively, the capsule can be administered with water via oral syringe or nasogastric (NG) tube. Administration with Water in an Oral Syringe Open the capsule and empty the granules into a clean container with 20 mL of water. Withdraw the entire mixture into a syringe. Gently swirl the syringe in order to keep granules from settling. Administer the mixture immediately into the mouth. Do not save the water and granule mixture for later use. Refill the syringe with 10 mL of water, swirl gently, and administer. Refill the syringe again with 10 mL of water, swirl gently, and administer. Administration with Water via a NG Tube (≥16 French) Open the capsule and empty the granules into a clean container with 20 mL of water. Withdraw the entire mixture into a catheter-tip syringe. Swirl the catheter-tip syringe gently in order to keep the granules from settling, and immediately inject the mixture through the NG tube into the stomach. Do not save the water and granule mixture for later use. Refill the catheter-tip syringe with 10 mL of water, swirl gently, and flush the tube. Refill the catheter-tip syringe again with 10 mL of water, swirl gently, and administer.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Dexlansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules, 60 mg , are opaque, green with "par" imprinted on the cap and "148" imprinted on the body. NDC: 72162-2214-03: 30 Capsules in a BOTTLE Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 3ed69e5a-aa78-4118-aa32-59a10f80c901
