Name: Diazepam

introduction: INDICATIONS Diazepam tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. In acute alcohol withdrawal, diazepam tablets may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation, tremor, impending or acute delirium tremens and hallucinosis. Diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology (such as inflammation of the muscles or joints, or secondary to trauma), spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders (such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia), athetosis, and stiff-man syndrome. Oral diazepam may be used adjunctively in convulsive disorders, although it has not proved useful as the sole therapy. The effectiveness of diazepam in long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies. The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect. While the usual daily dosages given below will meet the needs of most patients, there will be some who may require higher doses. In such cases, dosage should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse effects. ADULTS: USUAL DAILY DOSE: Management of Anxiety Disorders and Relief of Symptoms of Anxiety. Depending upon severity of symptoms – 2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily Symptomatic Relief in Acute Alcohol Withdrawal. 10 mg, 3 or 4 times during the first 24 hours, reducing to 5 mg, 3 or 4 times daily as needed. Adjunctively for Relief of Skeletal Muscle Spasm. 2 mg to 10 mg, 3 or 4 times daily Adjunctively in Convulsive Disorders. 2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily Geriatric Patients, or in the presence of debilitating disease. 2 mg to 2.5 mg, 1 or 2 times daily initially; increase gradually as needed and tolerated. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS: Because of varied responses to CNS-acting drugs, initiate therapy with lowest dose and increase as required. Not for use in pediatric patients under 6 months. 1 mg to 2.5 mg, 3 or 4 times daily initially; increase gradually as needed and tolerated. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Diazepam Tablets To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam tablets or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ).

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Diazepam Tablets USP, 2 mg are available as white, round, flat face, beveled edge tablets, debossed “3925” and bisected on one side and “TEVA” on the other side, containing 2 mg of diazepam, USP. NDC: 63629-2948-1: 30 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 63629-2948-2: 60 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 63629-2948-3: 20 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 63629-2948-4: 90 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 63629-2948-5: 120 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 63629-2948-6: 7 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 63629-2948-7: 2 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 63629-2948-8: 15 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 63629-2948-9: 45 Tablets in a BOTTLE Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP, with a child-resistant closure (as required). KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504 WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. If a decision is made to prescribe diazepam tablets concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of diazepam tablets than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking diazepam, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when diazepam is used with opioids. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction The use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam tablets, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Abuse ). Before prescribing diazepam tablets and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of diazepam, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of diazepam tablets along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Prescribe the lowest effective dosage; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. If a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam tablets or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Diazepam Tablets ). Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had longer durations of use. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of diazepam tablets after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Diazepam is not recommended in the treatment of psychotic patients and should not be employed instead of appropriate treatment. Since diazepam has a central nervous system depressant effect, patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS-depressant drugs during diazepam therapy. As with other agents that have anticonvulsant activity, when diazepam is used as an adjunct in treating convulsive disorders, the possibility of an increase in the frequency and/or severity of grand mal seizures may require an increase in the dosage of standard anticonvulsant medication. Abrupt withdrawal of diazepam in such cases may also be associated with a temporary increase in the frequency and/or severity of seizures. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of diazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Monitor neonates exposed to diazepam during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to diazepam during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 04cc10ad-7d5c-434e-9b29-85b14071492b
