Name: Dinoprostone

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE PREPIDIL Gel is indicated for ripening an unfavorable cervix in pregnant women at or near term with a medical or obstetrical need for labor induction.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NOTE: USE CAUTION IN HANDLING THIS PRODUCT TO PREVENT CONTACT WITH SKIN. WASH HANDS THOROUGHLY WITH SOAP AND WATER AFTER ADMINISTRATION. PREPIDIL Gel should be brought to room temperature (59° to 86°F; 15° to 30°C) just prior to administration. Do not force the warming process by using a water bath or other source of external heat (eg, microwave oven). To prepare the product for use remove the protective end cap (to serve as plunger extension) and insert the protective end cap into the plunger stopper assembly in the barrel of syringe. Choose the appropriate length shielded catheter (10 mm or 20 mm) and aseptically remove the sterile shielded catheter from the package. Careful vaginal examination will reveal the degree of effacement which will regulate the size of the shielded endocervical catheter to be used. That is, the 20 mm endocervical catheter should be used if no effacement is present, and the 10 mm catheter should be used if the cervix is 50% effaced. Firmly attach the catheter hub to the syringe tip as evidenced by a distinct click. Fill the catheter with sterile gel by pushing the plunger assembly to expel air from the catheter prior to administration to the patient. Proper assembly of the dosing apparatus is shown below. To properly administer the product, the patient should be in a dorsal position with the cervix visualized using a speculum. Using sterile technique, introduce the gel with the catheter provided into the cervical canal just below the level of the internal os. Administer the contents of the syringe by gentle expulsion and then remove the catheter. The gel is easily extrudable from the syringe. Use the contents of one syringe for one patient only. No attempt should be made to administer the small amount of gel remaining in the catheter. The syringe, catheter, and any unused package contents should be discarded after use. Following administration of PREPIDIL Gel, the patient should remain in the supine position for at least 15–30 minutes to minimize leakage from the cervical canal. If the desired response is obtained from PREPIDIL Gel, the recommended interval before giving intravenous oxytocin is 6–12 hours. If there is no cervical/uterine response to the initial dose of PREPIDIL Gel, repeat dosing may be given. The recommended repeat dose is 0.5 mg dinoprostone with a dosing interval of 6 hours. The need for additional dosing and the interval must be determined by the attending physician based on the course of clinical events. The maximum recommended cumulative dose for a 24-hour period is 1.5 mg of dinoprostone (7.5 mL PREPIDIL Gel). Figure

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED PREPIDIL Gel is available as a sterile semitranslucent viscous preparation for endocervical application: 0.5 mg PGE 2 per 3.0 g (2.5 mL) in syringe. In addition, each package contains two shielded catheters (10 mm and 20 mm tip) enclosed in sterile envelopes. The contents are not guaranteed sterile if envelopes are not intact. Each 3 gram syringe applicator contains: dinoprostone, 0.5 mg; colloidal silicon dioxide, 240 mg; triacetin, 2760 mg. 1 × 3 gram syringe NDC 0009-3359-01 5 × 3 gram syringes NDC 0009-3359-02 PREPIDIL Gel needs to be stored under continuous refrigeration (36° to 46°F; 2° to 8°C). WARNINGS FOR HOSPITAL USE ONLY Dinoprostone, as with other potent oxytocic agents, should be used only with strict adherence to recommended dosages. Dinoprostone should be administered by physicians in a hospital that can provide immediate intensive care and acute surgical facilities. Women aged 30 years or older, those with complications during pregnancy and those with a gestational age over 40 weeks have been shown to have an increased risk of post-partum disseminated intravascular coagulation. In addition, these factors may further increase the risk associated with labor induction (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Therefore, in these women, use of dinoprostone should be undertaken with caution. Measures should be applied to detect as soon as possible an evolving fibrinolysis in the immediate post-partum phase. The Clinician should be alert that the intracervical placement of dinoprostone gel may result in inadvertent disruption and subsequent embolization of antigenic tissue causing in rare circumstances the development of Anaphylactoid Syndrome of Pregnancy (Amniotic Fluid Embolism). There have been post-marketing reports of serious and life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and angioedema with PREPIDIL Gel (dinoprostone). Onset of these reported reactions occurred within minutes to hours after initiation with PREPIDIL Gel (dinoprostone). If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, if possible remove PREPIDIL Gel (dinoprostone). Assess for other potential causes of the event, and institute symptomatic and supportive therapy, as needed.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: ab03de5b-782c-4f81-a8dc-7ef9969dd0cf
