Name: Dornase alfa

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PULMOZYME ® is indicated, in conjunction with standard therapies, for the management of pediatric and adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) to improve pulmonary function. In CF patients with an FVC ≥ 40% of predicted, daily administration of PULMOZYME has also been shown to reduce the risk of respiratory tract infections requiring parenteral antibiotics. PULMOZYME is a recombinant DNase enzyme indicated in conjunction with standard therapies for the management of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients to improve pulmonary function. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 2.5 mg (one single-dose ampule) inhaled once daily using a recommended nebulizer. ( 2.1 ) Some patients may benefit from twice daily administration. ( 2.1 ) See full prescribing information for the recommended nebulizers for use with PULMOZYME. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage, in most cystic fibrosis patients, is 2.5 mg (one single-dose ampule) inhaled once daily using a recommended jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor system or via a vibrating mesh nebulizer [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . Some patients may benefit from twice daily administration [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . 2.2 Administration Instructions Nebulizer Information Administer PULMOZYME via a jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor with an adequate air flow and equipped with a mouthpiece or suitable face mask, or via a vibrating mesh nebulizer. Refer to Table 1 for the recommended Jet Nebulizers or Vibrating Mesh Nebulizers for use with PULMOZYME. No data are currently available to support the administration of PULMOZYME with other nebulizer systems. The eRapid Nebulizer System should only be used by adults and pediatric patients who can use a mouthpiece, and not by younger patients who need a mask to inhale PULMOZYME. Use the selected nebulizer in accordance with the manufacturer's instruction manual. Refer to the manufacturer's instruction manual on the use, maintenance, and replacement of the equipment, including cleaning and disinfection procedures for the selected nebulizer. For additional information, refer to the selected nebulizer manufacturer's instruction manual. Table 1. Recommended Jet Nebulizers or Vibrating Mesh Nebulizers for Use with PULMOZYME Jet Nebulizer Follow the selected nebulizer manufacturer's instruction manual. Compressor Hudson T Up-draft II ® Pulmo-Aide ® or legally marketed compressor of identical pressure and flow rate (maximum 30 psi, 12 LPM). Marquest Acorn II ® PARI LC ® Plus PARI PRONEB ® or legally marketed compressor of identical pressure and flow rate (maximum 24 psi, 9 LPM). PARI BABY™ Patients who are unable to inhale or exhale orally throughout the entire nebulization period may use the PARI BABY™ nebulizer. Durable Sidestream ® MOBILAIRE™, Porta-NEB ® or legally marketed compressor of identical pressure and flow rate (maximum 45 psi, 7 LPM). Vibrating Mesh Nebulizers eRapid ® Nebulizer System Consisting of the eRapid ® Nebulizer Handset with eBase™ Controller. Avoid use in patients who need a mask to inhale PULMOZYME. Innospire Go Pulmogine Vibrating Mesh Nebulizer AireHealth Nebulizer™ Intelligent Mesh Nebulizer PULMOZYME Information Each PULMOZYME ampule should be squeezed prior to use in order to check for leaks. Discard ampules if the solution is cloudy or discolored. Once opened, the entire contents of the ampule must be used or discarded. Do not dilute or mix PULMOZYME with other drugs in the nebulizer. Mixing of PULMOZYME with other drugs could lead to adverse physicochemical and/or functional changes in PULMOZYME or the admixed compound.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING PULMOZYME (dornase alfa) inhalation solution is a sterile, clear, colorless solution supplied in: 30 unit cartons containing 5 foil pouches of 6 single-dose ampules. Each 2.5 mL ampule contains 2.5 mg of dornase alfa (1 mg/mL): NDC 50242-100-40. Storage and Handling Store PULMOZYME ampules at a refrigerated temperature between 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in their protective foil to protect from light and heat. Once the protective foil pouch is opened, the unused ampules must be kept refrigerated in the protective foil pouch to protect from light and heat. Do not use beyond the expiration date stamped on the ampule. During transport, keep the ampules refrigerated in their protective foil pouch to protect from light and heat. Do not use if the ampules are exposed to room temperature (22°C to 28°C [72°F to 82°F]) for more than a total of 60 hours. Avoid excessive heat and light.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: d8c78a7e-ff99-48f3-8952-643ec2ea0f86
