Name: Dorzolamide

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, USP is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers (failed to achieve target IOP determined after multiple measurements over time). The IOP-lowering of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, USP administered twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol administered twice a day and 2% dorzolamide administered three times a day [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, USP is a combination of dorzolamide hydrochloride, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, and timolol maleate, a beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers. The IOP-lowering of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, USP twice daily was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol twice daily, and 2% dorzolamide three times daily. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the affected eye(s) two times daily. If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used, the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the affected eye(s) two times daily. ( 2 )

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, USP, 2%/0.5% is supplied in 10mL a natural, LDPE plastic ophthalmic dispenser with a natural nozzle and a dark blue, tamper-evident cap. NDC 71921-226-10, 10 mL in a 10 mL capacity bottle. Storage: Store dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light. After opening, dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution can be used until the expiration date on the bottle.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 02d89d37-cbca-4e06-83ef-2a10f988f1ea
