Name: Doxorubicin

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is an anthracycline topoisomerase inhibitor indicated: • as a component of multi-agent adjuvant chemotherapy for treatment of women with axillary lymph node involvement following resection of primary breast cancer ( 1.1 ) • for the treatment of: acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloblastic leukemia, Hodgkin lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin lymphoma, metastatic breast cancer, metastatic Wilms' tumor, metastatic neuroblastoma, metastatic soft tissue sarcoma, metastatic bone sarcomas, metastatic ovarian carcinoma, metastatic transitional cell bladder carcinoma, metastatic thyroid carcinoma, metastatic gastric carcinoma, metastatic bronchogenic carcinoma ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Adjuvant Breast Cancer Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is indicated as a component of multi-agent adjuvant chemotherapy for treatment of women with axillary lymph node involvement following resection of primary breast cancer . 1.2 Other Cancers Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is indicated for the treatment of • acute lymphoblastic leukemia • acute myeloblastic leukemia • Hodgkin lymphoma • non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) • metastatic breast cancer • metastatic Wilms' tumor • metastatic neuroblastoma • metastatic soft tissue sarcoma • metastatic bone sarcoma • metastatic ovarian carcinoma • metastatic transitional cell bladder carcinoma • metastatic thyroid carcinoma • metastatic gastric carcinoma • metastatic bronchogenic carcinoma

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single agent : 60 to 75 mg/m 2 given intravenously every 21 days ( 2.2 ) • In combination : 40 to 75 mg/m 2 given intravenously every 21 to 28 days ( 2.2 ) • Discontinue Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection in patients who develop signs or symptoms of cardiomyopathy ( 2.3 ) • Reduce dose in patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for Adjuvant Breast Cancer The recommended dosage of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is 60 mg/m 2 administered as an intravenous bolus on day 1 of each 21-day treatment cycle, in combination with cyclophosphamide, for a total of four cycles . 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Other Cancers • The recommended dosage of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection when used as a single agent is 60 mg/m 2 to 75 mg/m 2 intravenously every 21 days. • The recommended dosage of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection, when administered in combination with other chemotherapy drugs, is 40 mg/m 2 to 75 mg/m 2 intravenously every 21 to 28 days. • Consider use of the lower Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection dose in the recommended dosage range or longer intervals between cycles for heavily pretreated patients, elderly patients, or obese patients. • Cumulative doses above 550 mg/m 2 are associated with an increased risk of cardiomyopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Cardiomyopathy Discontinue Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection in patients who develop signs or symptoms of cardiomyopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications for Hepatic Impairment Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C or serum bilirubin greater than 5 mg/dL) [see Contraindications (4) ]. Dosage modifications for Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection in patients with elevated serum total bilirubin concentrations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] are provided in Table 1. Table 1. Recommended Dosage Modification for Elevated Serum Total Bilirubin Serum Total Bilirubin Concentration Dosage Modification 1.2–3 mg/dL 50% 3.1–5 mg/dL 75% Greater than 5 mg/dL Do not initiate Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection; discontinue Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection 2.5 Preparation and Administration Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1 Preparation Dilution of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection • Dilute Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. • Protect from light following preparation until completion of infusion. • Use within 1 hour. If not used within 1 hour, discard the diluted product. Administration • Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Discard if the solution is discolored, cloudy, or contains particulate matter. Administration by Intravenous Injection • Administer diluted Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection as an intravenous injection through a central intravenous line or a secure and free-flowing peripheral venous line containing 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. • Administer intravenously over 3 to 10 minutes. Decrease the rate of infusion if erythematous streaking along the vein proximal to the site of infusion or facial flushing occur. Administration by Continuous Intravenous Infusion • Administer diluted Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection solution only through a central intravenous line. Decrease the rate of infusion if erythematous streaking along the vein proximal to the site of infusion or facial flushing occur. • Protect from light from preparation for infusion until completion of infusion. Management of Suspected Extravasation Immediately discontinue Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection for burning or stinging sensation or other evidence indicating peri-venous infiltration or extravasation. Manage confirmed or suspected extravasation as follows: • Do not remove the needle until attempts are made to aspirate extravasated fluid. • Do not flush the line. • Avoid applying pressure to the site. • Apply ice to the site intermittently for 15 minutes, 4 times a day for 3 days. • If the extravasation is in an extremity, elevate the extremity. • In adults, consider administration of dexrazoxane [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Management of Contact with Skin or Eyes Treat accidental contact with the skin or eyes immediately by copious lavage with water, or soap and water, or sodium bicarbonate solution. Do not abrade the skin by using a scrub brush. Seek medical attention. Incompatibility with Other Drugs Do not admix Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection with other drugs. If Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is mixed with heparin or fluorouracil, a precipitate may form. Avoid contact with alkaline solutions which can lead to hydrolysis of doxorubicin hydrochloride.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is a sterile, isotonic solution, available in single-dose polypropylene (CYTOSAFE) ® vials, and multiple-dose polypropylene (CYTOSAFE) ® vials: Unit of Sale Total Strength/Total Volume (Concentration) NDC 0069-4004-05 Carton of 1 Single-dose Vial 10 mg/5 mL (2 mg/mL) NDC 0069-4015-10 Carton of 1 Single-dose Vial 20 mg/10 mL (2 mg/mL) NDC 0069-4026-25 Carton of 1 Single-dose Vial 50 mg/25 mL (2 mg/mL) NDC 0069-4037-01 Carton of 1 Multiple-dose Vial 200 mg/100 mL (2 mg/mL) Retain in carton until contents are used. For single-dose vials, discard unused portion. Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is a sterile, isotonic solution, available in single-dose ONCO-TAIN ® glass vials, and multiple-dose ONCO-TAIN ® glass vials: Unit of Sale Total Strength/Total Volume (Concentration) NDC 0069-4205-05 Carton of 1 Single-dose Vial 10 mg/5 mL (2 mg/mL) NDC 0069-0255-10 Carton of 1 Single-dose Vial 20 mg/10 mL (2 mg/mL) NDC 0069-3358-25 Carton of 1 Single-dose Vial 50 mg/25 mL (2 mg/mL) NDC 0069-1442-04 Carton of 1 Multiple-dose Vial 200 mg/100 mL (2 mg/mL) ONCO-TAIN ® is the vial external protection system. Retain in carton until contents are used. For single-dose ONCO-TAIN ® glass vials, discard unused portion. Storage Store all vials at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). Protect from light. Storage of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection under refrigerated conditions can result in the formation of a gelled product. Place gelled product at room temperature [15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F)] for 2 to 4 hours to return the product to a slightly viscous, mobile solution. Handling and Disposal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 00634b2b-4e48-4178-8877-28582af894ad
