Name: Dronabinol

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dronabinol capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: anorexia associated with weight loss in patients with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy in patients who have failed to respond adequately to conventional antiemetic treatments. Dronabinol capsules is a cannabinoid indicated in adults for the treatment of: Anorexia associated with weight loss in patients with AIDS. (1) Nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy in patients who have failed to respond adequately to conventional antiemetic treatments. (1)

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Anorexia Associated with Weight Loss in Adult Patients with AIDS (2.1): The recommended adult starting dosage is 2.5 mg orally twice daily, one hour before lunch and dinner. See the full prescribing information for dosage titration to manage adverse reactions and to achieve desired therapeutic effect. Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Chemotherapy in Adult Patients Who Failed Conventional Antiemetics (2.2): The recommended starting dosage is 5 mg/m 2 , administered 1 to 3 hours prior to the administration of chemotherapy, then every 2 to 4 hours after chemotherapy, for a total of 4 to 6 doses per day. Administer the first dose on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes prior to eating; subsequent doses can be taken without regard to meals. See the full prescribing information for dosage titration to manage adverse reactions and to achieve desired therapeutic effect. 2.1 Anorexia Associated with Weight Loss in Adult Patients with AIDS Starting Dosage The recommended adult starting dosage of dronabinol capsules is 2.5 mg orally twice daily, one hour before lunch and dinner. In elderly patients or patients unable to tolerate 2.5 mg twice daily, consider initiating dronabinol capsules at 2.5 mg once daily one hour before dinner or at bedtime to reduce the risk of central nervous system (CNS) symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. Dosing later in the day may reduce the frequency of CNS adverse reactions. CNS adverse reactions are dose-related [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]; therefore monitor patients and reduce the dosage as needed. If CNS adverse reactions of feeling high, dizziness, confusion, and somnolence occur, they usually resolve in 1 to 3 days and usually do not require dosage reduction. If CNS adverse reactions are severe or persistent, reduce the dosage to 2.5 mg in the evening or at bedtime. Dosage Titration If tolerated and further therapeutic effect is desired, the dosage may be increased gradually to 2.5 mg one hour before lunch and 5 mg one hour before dinner. Increase the dose of dronabinol capsules gradually in order to reduce the frequency of dose-related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Most patients respond to 2.5 mg twice daily, but the dose may be further increased to 5 mg one hour before lunch and 5 mg one hour before dinner, as tolerated to achieve a therapeutic effect. Maximum Dosage: 10 mg twice daily. 2.2 Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Cancer Chemotherapy in Adult Patients Who Failed Conventional Antiemetics Starting Dosage The recommended starting dosage of dronabinol capsules is 5 mg/m2, orally administered 1 to 3 hours prior to the administration of chemotherapy and then every 2 to 4 hours after chemotherapy, for a total of 4 to 6 doses per day. In elderly patients, consider initiating dronabinol capsules at 2.5 mg/m2 once daily 1 to 3 hours prior to chemotherapy to reduce the risk of CNS symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. Administer the first dose on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before eating. Subsequent doses can be taken without regard to meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The timing of dosing in relation to meal times should be kept consistent for each chemotherapy cycle, once the dosage has been determined from the titration process. Dosage Titration The dosage can be titrated to clinical response during a chemotherapy cycle or subsequent cycles, based upon initial response, as tolerated to achieve a clinical effect, in increments of 2.5 mg/m2. The maximum dosage is 15 mg/m2 per dose for 4 to 6 doses per day. Adverse reactions are dose-related and psychiatric symptoms increase significantly at the maximum dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Monitor patients for adverse reactions and consider decreasing the dose to 2.5 mg once daily 1 to 3 hours prior to chemotherapy to reduce the risk of CNS adverse reactions.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Dronabinol Capsules, USP 10 mg orange capsules (Identified MX). NDC 72162-1880-6 (Bottle of 60 capsules). Storage Conditions Dronabinol capsules should be packaged in a well-closed container and stored in a cool environment between 8° and 15°C (46° and 59°F) and alternatively could be stored in a refrigerator. Protect from freezing.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 001cf46a-ab2f-4f82-a015-175d7c9e7ef3
