Name: Dutasteride

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are a combination of dutasteride, a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor, and tamsulosin, an alpha-adrenergic antagonist, indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with an enlarged prostate. ( 1.1 ) Limitations of Use: Dutasteride-containing products, including dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, are not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Treatment Dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic BPH in men with an enlarged prostate. 1.2 Limitations of Use Dutasteride-containing products, including dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, are not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules is 1 capsule (0.5 mg dutasteride and 0.4 mg tamsulosin hydrochloride) taken once daily approximately 30 minutes after the same meal each day. The capsules should be swallowed whole and not chewed or opened. Contact with the contents of the dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsule may result in irritation of the oropharyngeal mucosa. Take one capsule daily approximately 30 minutes after the same meal each day. ( 2 ) Swallow capsule whole. ( 2 )

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, containing 0.5 mg dutasteride and 0.4 mg tamsulosin hydrochloride, are blue, opaque cap imprinted with “C280” and white, opaque body imprinted with “0.5/0.4” in black ink containing white to off-white spherical shaped pellets and one oblong, opaque yellow softgel capsule printed with “C300” in black ink. They are available in bottles with child-resistant closures as follows: Bottle of 30 (NDC 42291-031-30). Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Capsules may become deformed and/or discolored if kept at high temperatures. Dutasteride is absorbed through the skin. Dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules should not be handled by females who are pregnant or who could become pregnant because of the potential for absorption of dutasteride and the subsequent potential risk to a developing male fetus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] .

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0a334eb9-cacf-f213-e063-6394a90a46da
