Name: Eplerenone

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INSPRA is an aldosterone antagonist indicated for: • Improving survival of stable adult patients with symptomatic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) after an acute myocardial infarction. ( 1.1 ) • The treatment of hypertension in adults, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction INSPRA is indicated to improve survival of stable adult patients with symptomatic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (≤40%) (HFrEF) after an acute myocardial infarction (MI). 1.2 Hypertension INSPRA is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular (CV) events, primarily strokes and MI. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive CV risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce CV morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent CV outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in MI and CV mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased CV risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. INSPRA may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION HFrEF Post-MI: Initiate treatment with 25 mg once daily. Titrate to maximum of 50 mg once daily within 4 weeks, as tolerated. Dose adjustments may be required based on potassium levels. ( 2.1 ) Hypertension: 50 mg once daily, alone or combined with other antihypertensive agents. For inadequate response, increase to 50 mg twice daily. Higher dosages are not recommended. ( 2.2 ) For all patients: Measure serum potassium before starting INSPRA and periodically thereafter. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction Initiate treatment at 25 mg once daily and titrate to the recommended dose of 50 mg once daily, preferably within 4 weeks as tolerated by the patient. Once treatment with INSPRA has begun, adjust the dose based on the serum potassium level as shown in Table 1. Table 1. Dose Adjustment in Heart Failure Post-MI Serum Potassium (mEq/L) Dose Adjustment <5.0 25 mg every other day to 25 mg once daily 25 mg once daily to 50 mg once daily 5.0-5.4 No adjustment 5.5-5.9 50 mg once daily to 25 mg once daily 25 mg once daily to 25 mg every other day 25 mg every other day to withhold ≥6.0 Withhold and restart at 25 mg every other day when potassium levels fall to <5.5 mEq/L 2.2 Hypertension The recommended starting dose of INSPRA is 50 mg administered once daily. The full therapeutic effect of INSPRA is apparent within 4 weeks. For patients with an inadequate blood pressure response to 50 mg once daily increase the dosage of INSPRA to 50 mg twice daily. Higher dosages of INSPRA are not recommended because they have no greater effect on blood pressure than 100 mg and are associated with an increased risk of hyperkalemia [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 2.3 Recommended Monitoring Measure serum potassium before initiating INSPRA therapy, within the first week, and at one month after the start of treatment or dose adjustment. Assess serum potassium periodically thereafter. Check serum potassium and serum creatinine within 3-7 days of a patient initiating a moderate CYP3A inhibitor ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II blockers or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories. 2.4 Dose Modification for Use with Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors In post-MI HFrEF patients receiving a moderate CYP3A inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin, saquinavir, verapamil, and fluconazole), do not exceed 25 mg once daily. In patients with hypertension receiving a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, initiate at 25 mg once daily. For inadequate blood pressure response, dosing may be increased to a maximum of 25 mg twice daily [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING INSPRA Tablets are yellow, diamond biconvex, and film-coated. They are debossed with “VLE” on one side. They are supplied as follows: Dose Deboss Side 2 NDC 58151-xxx-xx Bottle/30 25 mg NSR 25 142-93 50 mg NSR 50 143-93 Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15-30°C (59-86°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1a52bedc-8e2c-4116-a296-a87770676b4a
