Name: Etanercept

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Enbrel is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker indicated for the treatment of: Adult patients with: Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.1 ) Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA) ( 1.3 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) Plaque Psoriasis (PsO) ( 1.5 ) Pediatric patients with: Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA), 2 years of age or older ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Psoriatic Arthritis, 2 years of age or older (JPsA) ( 1.6 ) Plaque Psoriasis, 4 years of age or older ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Rheumatoid Arthritis Enbrel is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inducing major clinical response, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Enbrel can be initiated in combination with methotrexate (MTX) or used alone. 1.2 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Enbrel is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.3 Psoriatic Arthritis Enbrel is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inhibiting the progression of structural damage of active arthritis, and improving physical function in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA). Enbrel can be used with or without methotrexate. 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis Enbrel is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (AS). 1.5 Plaque Psoriasis Enbrel is indicated for the treatment of patients 4 years or older with chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (PsO) who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. 1.6 Juvenile Psoriatic Arthritis Enbrel is indicated for the treatment of active juvenile psoriatic arthritis (JPsA) in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Enbrel is administered by subcutaneous injection. Patient Population Recommended Dose and Frequency Adult RA and PsA ( 2.3 ) 50 mg once weekly with or without methotrexate (MTX) AS ( 2.3 ) 50 mg once weekly Adult PsO ( 2.3 ) 50 mg twice weekly for 3 months, followed by 50 mg once weekly pJIA, Pediatric PsO and JPsA ( 2.4 ) 0.8 mg/kg weekly, with a maximum of 50 mg per week 2.1 Testing and Procedures Prior to Treatment Initiation Perform the following evaluations and procedures prior to initiating treatment with Enbrel: Prior to initiating Enbrel and periodically during therapy, evaluate patients for active tuberculosis and test for latent infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Complete all age-appropriate vaccinations as recommended by current immunization guidelines prior to initiating treatment with Enbrel [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 2.2 Important Administration Instructions Administration of one 50 mg Enbrel single - dose prefilled syringe, one single - dose prefilled Enbrel SureClick autoinjector, or one Enbrel Mini single - dose prefilled cartridge (for use with the AutoTouch reusable autoinjector only), provides a dose equivalent to two 25 mg Enbrel single-dose prefilled syringes, two 25 mg single - dose vials, or two multiple-dose vials of lyophilized Enbrel, when multiple - dose vials are reconstituted and administered as recommended. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis, Ankylosing Spondylitis, Psoriatic Arthritis, and Plaque Psoriasis Enbrel is administered by subcutaneous injection (Table 1). Table 1. Recommended Dosage for Adult Patients with RA, AS, PsA and PsO Patient Population Recommended Dosage Adult RA, AS, and PsA 50 mg weekly Adult PsO Starting Dose : 50 mg twice weekly for 3 months Maintenance Dose : 50 mg once weekly See the Enbrel (etanercept) "Instructions for Use" insert for detailed information on injection site selection and dose administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . Adult Rheumatoid Arthritis, Ankylosing Spondylitis, and Psoriatic Arthritis Patients Methotrexate, glucocorticoids, salicylates, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), or analgesics may be continued during treatment with Enbrel. Based on a study of 50 mg Enbrel twice weekly in patients with RA that suggested higher incidence of adverse reactions but similar American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response rates, doses higher than 50 mg per week are not recommended. Adult Plaque Psoriasis Patients In addition to the 50 mg twice weekly recommended starting dose, starting doses of 25 mg or 50 mg per week were shown to be efficacious. The proportion of responders was related to Enbrel dosage [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients with Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis, Plaque Psoriasis, and Juvenile Psoriatic Arthritis The recommended weight-based dosage for pediatric patients is administered by subcutaneous injection (Table 2). Table 2. Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients with pJIA, PsO and JPsA Body Weight Recommended Dosage 63 kg (138 pounds) or more 50 mg weekly Less than 63 kg (138 pounds) 0.8 mg/kg weekly To achieve pediatric doses other than 25 mg or 50 mg, use Enbrel solution in a single-dose vial or reconstituted lyophilized powder in a multiple-dose vial. Dosages of Enbrel higher than those described in Table 2 have not been studied in pediatric patients. In pJIA patients, glucocorticoids, NSAIDs, or analgesics may be continued during treatment with Enbrel. 2.5 Preparation Instructions for Enbrel Enbrel is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a physician. Patients may self-inject when deemed appropriate and if they receive medical follow-up, as necessary. Patients should not self-administer until they receive proper training in how to prepare and administer the correct dose. Administer injections subcutaneously in the thigh, abdomen or outer area of the upper arm. The Enbrel devices are not made with natural rubber latex. The Enbrel (etanercept) "Instructions for Use" insert for each presentation contains more detailed instructions on injection site selection and the preparation of Enbrel. Preparation of Enbrel Single-dose Prefilled Syringe For a more comfortable injection, leave Enbrel prefilled syringes at room temperature for about 15 to 30 minutes before injecting. DO NOT remove the needle cover while allowing the prefilled syringe to reach room temperature. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. There may be small white particles of protein in the solution. This is not unusual for proteinaceous solutions. The solution should not be used if discolored or cloudy, or if foreign particulate matter is present. When using the Enbrel single-dose prefilled syringe, check to see if the amount of liquid in the prefilled syringe falls between the two purple fill level indicator lines on the syringe. If the syringe does not have the right amount of liquid, DO NOT USE THAT SYRINGE. Preparation of Enbrel Single-dose Prefilled SureClick Autoinjector Leave the autoinjector at room temperature for at least 30 minutes before injecting. DO NOT remove the needle cover while allowing the prefilled syringe to reach room temperature. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. There may be small white particles of protein in the solution. This is not unusual for proteinaceous solutions. The solution should not be used if discolored or cloudy, or if foreign particulate matter is present. Preparation of Enbrel Single-dose Vial For a more comfortable injection, leave Enbrel vial(s) at room temperature for at least 30 minutes before injecting. DO NOT remove the vial cap while allowing the vial to reach room temperature. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. There may be small white particles of protein in the solution. This is not unusual for proteinaceous solutions. The solution should not be used if discolored or cloudy, or if foreign particulate matter is present. When using the Enbrel single-dose vial, administer the correct dose of solution using the following recommended materials: A 1 mL Luer-Lock syringe. A withdrawal needle with Luer-Lock connection, sterile, 22-gauge, length 1 ½ inch. An injection needle with Luer-Lock connection, sterile, 27-gauge, length ½ inch. Two vials may be required to administer the total prescribed dose. Use the same syringe for each vial. The vial does not contain preservatives; therefore, discard unused portions. Preparation of Enbrel Lyophilized Powder in a Multiple-dose Vial Enbrel lyophilized powder should be reconstituted aseptically with 1 mL of the supplied Sterile Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (0.9% benzyl alcohol), giving a solution of 1 mL containing 25 mg of Enbrel. A vial adapter is supplied for use when reconstituting the lyophilized powder. However, the vial adapter should not be used if multiple doses are going to be withdrawn from the vial. If the vial will be used for multiple doses, a 25-gauge needle should be used for reconstituting and withdrawing Enbrel, and the supplied "Mixing Date:" sticker should be attached to the vial and the date of reconstitution entered. Reconstituted solution must be refrigerated at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C) and used within 14 days. Discard reconstituted solution after 14 days because product stability and sterility cannot be assured after 14 days. DO NOT store reconstituted Enbrel solution at room temperature. For a more comfortable injection, leave the Enbrel dose tray at room temperature for about 15 to 30 minutes before injecting. If using the vial adapter, twist the vial adapter onto the diluent syringe. Then, place the vial adapter over the Enbrel vial and insert the vial adapter into the vial stopper. Push down on the plunger to inject the diluent into the Enbrel vial. If using a 25-gauge needle to reconstitute and withdraw Enbrel, the diluent should be injected very slowly into the Enbrel vial. It is normal for some foaming to occur. Keeping the diluent syringe in place, gently swirl the contents of the Enbrel vial during dissolution. To avoid excessive foaming, do not shake or vigorously agitate. Generally, dissolution of Enbrel takes less than 10 minutes. Do not use the solution if discolored or cloudy, or if particulate matter remains. Withdraw the correct dose of reconstituted solution into the syringe. Some foam or bubbles may remain in the vial. Remove the syringe from the vial adapter or remove the 25-gauge needle from the syringe. Attach a 27-gauge needle to inject Enbrel. The contents of one vial of Enbrel solution should not be mixed with, or transferred into, the contents of another vial of Enbrel. No other medications should be added to solutions containing Enbrel, and do not reconstitute Enbrel with other diluents. Do not filter reconstituted solution during preparation or administration. Preparation of Enbrel Mini ® single-dose prefilled cartridge using the AutoTouch ® reusable autoinjector Leave Enbrel Mini single-dose prefilled cartridge at room temperature for at least 30 minutes before injecting. DO NOT remove the purple cap while allowing the cartridge to reach room temperature. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. There may be small white particles of protein in the solution. This is not unusual for proteinaceous solutions. The solution should not be used if discolored or cloudy, or if foreign particulate matter is present. To use AutoTouch reusable autoinjector, open the door by pushing the door button and inserting Enbrel Mini single-dose prefilled cartridge into AutoTouch. When inserted correctly, Enbrel Mini single-dose prefilled cartridge will slide freely and completely into the door. Close the door and AutoTouch reusable autoinjector is ready for injection.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Enbrel (etanercept) injection is supplied as a clear and colorless sterile, preservative-free solution for subcutaneous administration in single-dose prefilled syringes, an Enbrel single-dose prefilled SureClick autoinjector with a 27-gauge, ½-inch needle, or a single-dose vial. The prefilled syringe and SureClick autoinjector are not made with natural rubber latex. Each Enbrel ® Mini single-dose prefilled cartridge for use with the AutoTouch ® reusable autoinjector contains 1.0 mL of 50 mg/mL of etanercept. The AutoTouch reusable autoinjector and Enbrel Mini single-dose prefilled cartridge are not made with natural rubber latex. The AutoTouch reusable autoinjector contains no drug and must use an Enbrel Mini single-dose prefilled cartridge. In addition, the AutoTouch Connect ® reusable autoinjector would allow for data connectivity via Bluetooth wireless technology. 50 mg/mL single-dose prefilled syringe Carton of 4 NDC 58406-021-04 50 mg/mL single-dose prefilled SureClick autoinjector Carton of 4 NDC 58406-032-04 25 mg/0.5 mL single-dose prefilled syringe Carton of 4 NDC 58406-010-04 50 mg/mL Enbrel Mini single-dose prefilled cartridge for use with the AutoTouch reusable autoinjector only Cartridges: Carton of 4 NDC 58406-044-04 NDC 58406-044-24 AutoTouch Connect Reusable Autoinjector: Carton of 1 NDC 58406-480-01 25 mg/0.5 mL single-dose vial Carton of 4 NDC 58406-055-04 Enbrel should be refrigerated at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C) in the original carton to protect from light or physical damage. Do not store Enbrel in extreme heat or cold. DO NOT SHAKE. DO NOT FREEZE. For convenience, storage of individual single-dose prefilled syringes, SureClick autoinjectors, single-dose vials, or Enbrel Mini cartridges at room temperature at 68°F to 77°F (20°C to 25°C) for a maximum single period of 30 days is permissible, with protection from light and sources of heat. Once a single-dose prefilled syringe, SureClick autoinjector, single-dose vial, or Enbrel Mini cartridge has been stored at room temperature, it should not be placed back into the refrigerator. If not used within 30 days at room temperature, the single-dose prefilled syringe, SureClick autoinjector, single-dose vial, or Enbrel Mini cartridge should be discarded. Do not use Enbrel beyond the expiration date stamped on the carton or barrel/cartridge label. Keep out of the reach of children. The AutoTouch reusable autoinjector should be stored at room temperature. Do not refrigerate the AutoTouch reusable autoinjector. Enbrel Lyophilized Powder (Used for Weight-based Dosing) Enbrel (etanercept) for Injection is supplied as lyophilized powder for reconstitution in a multiple-dose vial. Each vial is supplied in a carton containing four dose trays. Each dose tray contains one 25 mg vial of etanercept lyophilized powder, one diluent syringe (1 mL Sterile Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP, containing 0.9% benzyl alcohol), one 27-gauge ½-inch needle, one vial adapter, and one plunger. Each carton contains four "Mixing Date:" stickers. 25 mg multiple-dose vial Carton of 4 NDC 58406-425-34 Enbrel should be refrigerated at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C) in the original carton to protect from light or physical damage. Do not store Enbrel in extreme heat or cold. DO NOT SHAKE. DO NOT FREEZE. For convenience, storage of an individual dose tray containing Enbrel multiple-dose vial and diluent syringe at room temperature at 68°F to 77°F (20°C to 25°C) for a maximum single period of 14 days is permissible, with protection from light, sources of heat, and humidity. Once the dose tray has been stored at room temperature, it should not be placed back into the refrigerator. If not used within 14 days at room temperature, the dose tray should be discarded. Once a vial has been reconstituted, the solution must be used immediately or may be refrigerated for up to 14 days. Do not use Enbrel beyond the expiration date stamped on the dose tray. Keep out of the reach of children.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: a002b40c-097d-47a5-957f-7a7b1807af7f
