Name: Everolimus

introduction: 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Everolimus tablets are a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: Postmenopausal women with advanced hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer in combination with exemestane after failure of treatment with letrozole or anastrozole. ( 1.1 ) Adults with progressive neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin (PNET) and adults with progressive, well-differentiated, non-functional neuroendocrine tumors (NET) of gastrointestinal (GI) or lung origin that are unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic. Limitations of Use: Everolimus tablets are not indicated for the treatment of patients with functional carcinoid tumors. ( 1.2 ) Adults with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) after failure of treatment with sunitinib or sorafenib. ( 1.3 ) Adults with renal angiomyolipoma and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), not requiring immediate surgery. ( 1.4 ) Everolimus tablets and everolimus tablets for oral suspension are kinase inhibitors indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 1 year and older with TSC who have subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) that requires therapeutic intervention but cannot be curatively resected. ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Hormone Receptor-Positive, HER2-Negative Breast Cancer Everolimus tablets are indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal women with advanced hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer in combination with exemestane, after failure of treatment with letrozole or anastrozole. 1.2 Neuroendocrine Tumors (NET) Everolimus tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin (PNET) with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic disease. Everolimus tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive, well-differentiated, non-functional NET of gastrointestinal (GI) or lung origin with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic disease. Limitations of Use: Everolimus tablets are not indicated for the treatment of patients with functional carcinoid tumors [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) Everolimus tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC after failure of treatment with sunitinib or sorafenib. 1.4 Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC)-Associated Renal Angiomyolipoma Everolimus tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients with renal angiomyolipoma and TSC, not requiring immediate surgery. 1.5 Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC)-Associated Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma (SEGA) Everolimus tablets and Everolimus tablets for oral suspension are indicated in adult and pediatric patients aged 1 year and older with TSC for the treatment of SEGA that requires therapeutic intervention but cannot be curatively resected.

dosage_text: 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Do not combine everolimus tablets and everolimus tablets for oral suspension to achieve the total daily dose. ( 2.1 ) Modify the dose for patients with hepatic impairment or for patients taking drugs that inhibit or induce P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and CYP3A4. ( 2.1 ) Breast Cancer: 10 mg orally once daily. ( 2.2 ) NET: 10 mg orally once daily. ( 2.3 ) RCC: 10 mg orally once daily. ( 2.4 ) TSC-Associated Renal Angiomyolipoma: 10 mg orally once daily. ( 2.5 ) TSC-Associated SEGA: 4.5 mg/m 2 orally once daily; adjust dose to attain trough concentrations of 5-15 ng/mL. ( 2.6 , 2.8 ) 2.1 Important Dosage Information Everolimus tablets and everolimus tablets for oral suspension are two different dosage forms. Select the recommended dosage form based on the indication [see Indications and Usage (1) ] . Do not combine everolimus tablets and everolimus tablets for oral suspension to achieve the total dose. Modify the dosage for patients with hepatic impairment or for patients taking drugs that inhibit or induce P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration (2.10 , 2.11 , 2.12) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Hormone Receptor-Positive, HER2-Negative Breast Cancer The recommended dosage of everolimus tablets is 10 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Neuroendocrine Tumors (NET) The recommended dosage of everolimus tablets is 10 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) The recommended dosage of everolimus tablets is 10 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC)-Associated Renal Angiomyolipoma The recommended dosage of everolimus tablets is 10 mg orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 2.6 Recommended Dosage for Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC)-Associated Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma (SEGA) The recommended starting dosage of everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension is 4.5 mg/m 2 orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) ]. 2.8 Therapeutic Drug Monitoring (TDM) and Dose Titration for Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) Associated Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma (SEGA) Monitor everolimus whole blood trough concentrations at time points recommended in Table 1. Titrate the dose to attain trough concentrations of 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL. Adjust the dose using the following equation: New dose The maximum dose increment at any titration must not exceed 5 mg. Multiple dose titrations may be required to attain the target trough concentration. = current dose × (target concentration divided by current concentration) When possible, use the same assay and laboratory for TDM throughout treatment. Table 1: Recommended Timing of Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Event When to Assess Trough Concentrations After Event Abbreviation: P-gp, P-glycoprotein. Initiation of everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension 1 to 2 weeks Modification of everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension dose 1 to 2 weeks Switch between everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension 1 to 2 weeks Initiation or discontinuation of P-gp and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor 2 weeks Initiation or discontinuation of P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer 2 weeks Change in hepatic function 2 weeks Stable dose with changing body surface area (BSA) Every 3 to 6 months Stable dose with stable BSA Every 6 to 12 months 2.9 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Table 2 summarizes recommendations for dosage modifications of everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension for the management of adverse reactions. Table 2: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Everolimus Tablets/Everolimus Tablets for Oral Suspension for Adverse Reactions Adverse Reaction Severity Dosage Modification Non-infectious pneumonitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Grade 2 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Permanently discontinue if toxicity does not resolve or improve to Grade 1 within 4 weeks. Grade 3 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. If toxicity recurs at Grade 3, permanently discontinue. Grade 4 Permanently discontinue. Stomatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Grade 2 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at same dose. If recurs at Grade 2, withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Grade 3 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Grade 4 Permanently discontinue. Metabolic events (e.g., hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Grade 3 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0, 1, or 2. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Grade 4 Permanently discontinue. Other non-hematologic toxicities Grade 2 If toxicity becomes intolerable, withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at same dose. If toxicity recurs at Grade 2, withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Grade 3 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Consider resuming at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. If recurs at Grade 3, permanently discontinue. Grade 4 Permanently discontinue. Thrombocytopenia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Grade 2 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at same dose. Grade 3 OR Grade 4 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0 or 1. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Neutropenia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Grade 3 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0, 1, or 2. Resume at same dose. Grade 4 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0, 1, or 2. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Febrile neutropenia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Grade 3 Withhold until improvement to Grade 0, 1, or 2, and no fever. Resume at 50% of previous dose; change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Grade 4 Permanently discontinue. 2.10 Dosage Modifications for Hepatic Impairment The recommended dosages of everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension for patients with hepatic impairment are described in Table 3 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] : Table 3: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Patients With Hepatic Impairment Indication Dose Modification for Everolimus Tablets/Everolimus Tablets for Oral Suspension Abbreviations: NET, Neuroendocrine Tumors; RCC, Renal Cell Carcinoma; SEGA, Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma; TSC, Tuberous Sclerosis Complex. Breast Cancer, NET, RCC, and TSC- Associated Renal Angiomyolipoma Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A) – 7.5 mg orally once daily; decrease the dose to 5 mg orally once daily if a dose of 7.5 mg once daily is not tolerated. Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) – 5 mg orally once daily; decrease the dose to 2.5 mg orally once daily if a dose of 5 mg once daily is not tolerated. Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) – 2.5 mg orally once daily if the desired benefit outweighs the risk; do not exceed a dose of 2.5 mg once daily. TSC-Associated SEGA Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) – 2.5 mg/m 2 orally once daily. Adjust dose based on everolimus trough concentrations as recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) ]. 2.11 Dosage Modifications for P-gp and CYP3A4 Inhibitors Avoid the concomitant use of P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Avoid ingesting grapefruit and grapefruit juice. Reduce the dose for patients taking everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension with a P-gp and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor as recommended in Table 4 [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 4: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Concurrent Use of Everolimus Tablets/Everolimus Tablets for Oral Suspension With a P-gp and Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitor Indication Dose Modification for Everolimus Tablets/Everolimus Tablets for Oral Suspension Breast Cancer, NET, RCC, and TSC-Associated Renal Angiomyolipoma Reduce dose to 2.5 mg once daily. May increase dose to 5 mg once daily if tolerated. Resume dose administered prior to inhibitor initiation, once the inhibitor is discontinued for 3 days. TSC-Associated SEGA Reduce the daily dose by 50%. Change to every other day dosing if the reduced dose is lower than the lowest available strength. Resume dose administered prior to inhibitor initiation, once the inhibitor is discontinued for 3 days. Assess trough concentrations when initiating and discontinuing the inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) ]. 2.12 Dosage Modifications for P-gp and CYP3A4 Inducers Avoid concomitant use of St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum). Increase the dose for patients taking everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension with a P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducer as recommended in Table 5 [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 5: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Concurrent Use of Everolimus Tablets/Everolimus Tablets for Oral Suspension With P-gp and Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Indication Dose Modification for Everolimus Tablets/Everolimus Tablets for Oral Suspension Breast Cancer, NET, RCC, and TSC-Associated Renal Angiomyolipoma Avoid coadministration where alternatives exist. If coadministration cannot be avoided, double the daily dose using increments of 5 mg or less. Multiple increments may be required. Resume the dose administered prior to inducer initiation, once an inducer is discontinued for 5 days. TSC-Associated SEGA Double the daily dose using increments of 5 mg or less. Multiple increments may be required. Addition of another strong CYP3A4 inducer in a patient already receiving treatment with a strong CYP3A4 inducer may not require additional dosage modification. Assess trough concentrations when initiating and discontinuing the inducer [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) ] . Resume the dose administered before starting any inducer, once all inducers are discontinued for 5 days. 2.13 Administration and Preparation Administer everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension at the same time each day. Administer everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension consistently either with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If a dose of everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension is missed, it can be administered up to 6 hours after the time it is normally administered. After more than 6 hours, the dose should be skipped for that day. The next day, everolimus tablets/everolimus tablets for oral suspension should be administered at its usual time. Double doses should not be administered to make up for the dose that was missed. Everolimus Tablets Everolimus Tablets should be swallowed whole with a glass of water. Do not break or crush tablets. Everolimus Tablets for Oral Suspension Wear gloves to avoid possible contact with everolimus when preparing suspensions of everolimus tablets for oral suspension for another person. Administer as a suspension only. Administer suspension immediately after preparation. Discard suspension if not administered within 60 minutes after preparation. Prepare suspension in water only. Using an Oral Syringe to Prepare Oral Suspension: Place the prescribed dose into a 10-mL syringe. Do not exceed a total of 10 mg per syringe. If higher doses are required, prepare an additional syringe. Do not break or crush tablets. Draw approximately 5 mL of water and 4 mL of air into the syringe. Place the filled syringe into a container (tip up) for 3 minutes, until the tablets are in suspension. Gently invert the syringe 5 times immediately prior to administration. After administration of the prepared suspension, draw approximately 5 mL of water and 4 mL of air into the same syringe, and swirl the contents to suspend remaining particles. Administer the entire contents of the syringe. Using a Small Drinking Glass to Prepare Oral Suspension: Place the prescribed dose into a small drinking glass (maximum size 100 mL) containing approximately 25 mL of water. Do not exceed a total of 10 mg per glass. If higher doses are required, prepare an additional glass. Do not break or crush tablets. Allow 3 minutes for suspension to occur. Stir the contents gently with a spoon, immediately prior to drinking. After administration of the prepared suspension, add 25 mL of water and stir with the same spoon to re-suspend remaining particles. Administer the entire contents of the glass.

how_to_use: 16. HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Everolimus Tablets 2.5 mg tablets White to off-white coloured, oval, flat shaped tablets and no score, debossed with 'EVR' on one side and '2.5' on the other side; available in: Bottles of 30 tablets NDC 51991-821-33 Blisters of 28 tablets NDC 51991-821-28 Each carton contains 4 blister cards of 7 tablets each 5 mg tablets White to off-white coloured, oval, flat shaped tablets and no score, debossed with 'EVR' on one side and '5' on the other side; available in: Bottles of 30 tablets NDC 51991-822-33 Blisters of 28 tablets NDC 51991-822-28 Each carton contains 4 blister cards of 7 tablets each 7.5 mg tablets White to off-white coloured, oval, flat shaped tablets and no score, debossed with 'EVR' on one side and '7.5' on the other side; available in: Bottles of 30 tablets NDC 51991-823-33 Blisters of 28 tablets NDC 51991-823-28 Each carton contains 4 blister cards of 7 tablets each 10 mg tablets White to off-white coloured, oval, flat shaped tablets and no score, debossed with 'EVR' on one side and 'NAT' on the other side; available in: Bottles of 30 tablets NDC 51991-824-33 Blisters of 28 tablets NDC 51991-824-28 Each carton contains 4 blister cards of 7 tablets each Everolimus Tablets for Oral Suspension 2 mg tablets for oral suspension: White to off white colored, round, flat tablets, debossed with "2" on one side and "E" on other side; available in: Blisters of 28 tablets NDC 51991-990-28 Bottles of 28 tablets NDC 51991-990-77 Each carton contains 4 blister cards of 7 tablets each 3 mg tablets for oral suspension: White to off white colored, round, flat tablets, debossed with "3" on one side and "E" on other side; available in: Blisters of 28 tablets NDC 51991-991-28 Bottles of 28 tablets NDC 51991-991-77 Each carton contains 4 blister cards of 7 tablets each 5 mg tablets for oral suspension: White to off white colored, round, flat tablets, debossed with "5" on one side and "E" on other side; available in: Blisters of 28 tablets NDC 51991-992-28 Bottles of 28 tablets NDC 51991-992-77 Each carton contains 4 blister cards of 7 tablets each Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15°C and 30°C (59°F and 86°F). See USP Controlled Room Temperature. Store in the original container, protect from light and moisture. Follow special handling and disposal procedures for anti-cancer pharmaceuticals. 1

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 01f7b5fb-be0d-4adf-acd2-6899018de966
