Name: Fenofibrate

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fenofibrate tablet USP is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist indicated as an adjunct to diet: To reduce elevated LDL-C, Total-C, TG and Apo B, and to increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia ( 1.1 ). For treatment of adult patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia ( 1.2 ). Limitations of Use: Fenofibrate was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 5.1 ). 1.1 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia Fenofibrate tablet USP is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet to reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), total cholesterol (Total-C), Triglycerides and apolipoprotein B (Apo B), and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia. 1.2 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia Fenofibrate tablet USP is also indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for treatment of adult patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia. Improving glycemic control in diabetic patients showing fasting chylomicronemia will usually obviate the need for pharmacologic intervention. Markedly elevated levels of serum triglycerides (e.g. > 2,000 mg/dL) may increase the risk of developing pancreatitis. The effect of fenofibrate therapy on reducing this risk has not been adequately studied. 1.3 Important Limitations of Use Fenofibrate at a dose equivalent to 160 mg of fenofibrate tablet USP was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in a large, randomized controlled trial of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia: Initial dose of 160 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). Severe hypertriglyceridemia: Initial dose of 54 to 160 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 160 mg ( 2.3 ). Renally impaired patients: Initial dose of 54 mg once daily ( 2.4 ). Geriatric patients: Select the dose on the basis of renal function ( 2.5 ). Should be given with meals ( 2.1 ). 2.1 General Considerations Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving fenofibrate tablet USP, and should continue this diet during treatment with fenofibrate tablet USP. Fenofibrate tablets USP should be given with meals, thereby optimizing the bioavailability of the medication. The initial treatment for dyslipidemia is dietary therapy specific for the type of lipoprotein abnormality. Excess body weight and excess alcoholic intake may be important factors in hypertriglyceridemia and should be addressed prior to any drug therapy. Physical exercise can be an important ancillary measure. Diseases contributory to hyperlipidemia, such as hypothyroidism or diabetes mellitus should be looked for and adequately treated. Estrogen therapy, thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers, are sometimes associated with massive rises in plasma triglycerides, especially in subjects with familial hypertriglyceridemia. In such cases, discontinuation of the specific etiologic agent may obviate the need for specific drug therapy of hypertriglyceridemia. Lipid levels should be monitored periodically and consideration should be given to reducing the dosage of fenofibrate tablet USP if lipid levels fall significantly below the targeted range. Therapy should be withdrawn in patients who do not have an adequate response after two months of treatment with the maximum recommended dose of 160 mg once daily. 2.2 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia The initial dose of fenofibrate tablet USP is 160 mg once daily. 2.3 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia The initial dose is 54 to 160 mg per day. Dosage should be individualized according to patient response, and should be adjusted if necessary following repeat lipid determinations at 4 to 8 week intervals. The maximum dose is 160 mg once daily. 2.4 Impaired Renal Function Treatment with fenofibrate tablet USP should be initiated at a dose of 54 mg per day in patients having mild to moderately impaired renal function, and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and lipid levels at this dose. The use of fenofibrate tablet USP should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Geriatric Patients Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.5 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Product: 50090-5854 NDC: 50090-5854-0 30 TABLET in a BOTTLE NDC: 50090-5854-1 90 TABLET in a BOTTLE

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 00c2f942-e839-46fc-948a-f8e2fa79ccd1
