Name: Fesoterodine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Overactive bladder (OAB) in adults with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Adult Overactive Bladder Fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) in adults with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s TOVIAZ ® (fesoterodine fumarate) extended-release tablets. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1.1 Adult Overactive Bladder Fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) in adults with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s TOVIAZ ® (fesoterodine fumarate) extended-release tablets. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION OAB in Adults : The recommended starting dosage is 4 mg orally once daily. Based upon individual response and tolerability, increase to the maximum dosage of 8 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Adult Patients with Renal Impairment : Refer to the full prescribing information for recommended dosage. ( 2.3 ) Dosage Modifications Due to Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Refer to the full prescribing information for recommended dosage. ( 2.5 ) Administration : Swallow whole with liquid. Do not chew, divide, or crush. Take with or without food. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for Adult Patients With OAB The recommended starting dosage of fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets in adults is 4 mg orally once daily. Based upon individual response and tolerability, increase to the maximum dosage of fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets 8 mg once daily. For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration (2.6) . Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s TOVIAZ ® (fesoterodine fumarate) extended-release tablets. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients With Renal Impairment The recommended dosage of fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets in adult patients with renal impairment is described in Table 1 [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration (2.6) . Table 1: Fesoterodine Fumarate Extended-Release Tablets Recommended Dose in Adult Patients With Renal Impairment (Administered Orally Once Daily) Estimated Creatinine Clearance 1 Recommended Dose CLcr 30 to 89 mL/min 8 mg CLcr 15 to 29 mL/min 4 mg CLcr <15 mL/min 4 mg 1 Calculate CLcr using the Cockcroft-Gault formula Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s TOVIAZ ® (fesoterodine fumarate) extended-release tablets. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.5 Fesoterodine Fumarate Extended-Release Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Adult Patients with OAB The maximum recommended dosage is fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets 4 mg orally once daily in adult patients taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration (2.6) . Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s TOVIAZ ® (fesoterodine fumarate) extended-release tablets. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.6 Administration Instructions Swallow fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets whole with liquid. Do not chew, divide, or crush. Take with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.1 Recommended Dosage for Adult Patients With OAB The recommended starting dosage of fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets in adults is 4 mg orally once daily. Based upon individual response and tolerability, increase to the maximum dosage of fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets 8 mg once daily. For administration instructions, see Dosage and Administration (2.6) . Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s TOVIAZ ® (fesoterodine fumarate) extended-release tablets. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets, 4 mg, are supplied as light blue colored, oval shaped, and film-coated; debossed with “A 69” on one side and plain on the other side. They are available as follows: Bottles of 30: NDC 65162-369-03 Bottles of 90: NDC 65162-369-09 Fesoterodine fumarate extended-release tablets, 8 mg , are supplied as blue colored, oval shaped, and film-coated; debossed with “A 70” on one side and plain on the other side. They are available as follows: Bottles of 30: NDC 65162-370-03 Bottles of 90: NDC 65162-370-09 Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1d3fdfcf-7406-4be0-90e9-b10c9257bf69
