Name: Filgrastim

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RELEUKO is a leukocyte growth factor indicated to: Decrease the incidence of infection‚ as manifested by febrile neutropenia‚ in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti- cancer drugs associated with a significant incidence of severe neutropenia with fever. ( 1.1 ) Reduce the time to neutrophil recovery and the duration of fever, following induction or consolidation chemotherapy treatment of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). ( 1.2 ) Reduce the duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related clinical sequelae‚ e.g.‚ febrile neutropenia, in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies undergoing myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow transplantation (BMT). ( 1.3 ) Mobilize autologous hematopoietic progenitor cells into the peripheral blood for collection by leukapheresis ( 1.4 ) Reduce the incidence and duration of sequelae of severe neutropenia (e.g., fever‚ infections‚ oropharyngeal ulcers) in symptomatic patients with congenital neutropenia‚ cyclic neutropenia‚ or idiopathic neutropenia. ( 1.5 ) Increase survival in patients acutely exposed to myelosuppressive doses of radiation (Hematopoietic Syndrome of Acute Radiation Syndrome) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Patients with Cancer Receiving Myelosuppressive Chemotherapy RELEUKO is indicated to decrease the incidence of infection‚ as manifested by febrile neutropenia‚ in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti-cancer drugs associated with a significant incidence of severe neutropenia with fever [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia Receiving Induction or Consolidation Chemotherapy RELEUKO is indicated for reducing the time to neutrophil recovery and the duration of fever, following induction or consolidation chemotherapy treatment of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.3 Patients with Cancer Undergoing Bone Marrow Transplantation RELEUKO is indicated to reduce the duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related clinical sequelae‚ e.g.‚ febrile neutropenia, in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies undergoing myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow transplantation [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1.4 Patients Undergoing Autologous Peripheral Blood Progenitor Cell Collection and Therapy RELEUKO is indicated for the mobilization of autologous hematopoietic progenitor cells into the peripheral blood for collection by leukapheresis [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1.5 Patients with Severe Chronic Neutropenia RELEUKO is indicated for chronic administration to reduce the incidence and duration of sequelae of neutropenia (e.g.‚ fever‚ infections‚ oropharyngeal ulcers) in symptomatic patients with congenital neutropenia‚ cyclic neutropenia‚ or idiopathic neutropenia [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. 1.6 Patients Acutely Exposed to Myelosuppressive Doses of Radiation (Hematopoietic Syndrome of Acute Radiation Syndrome) RELEUKO is indicated to increase survival in patients acutely exposed to myelosuppressive doses of radiation [see Clinical Studies (14.6) ] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients with cancer receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy or induction and/or consolidation chemotherapy for AML. Recommended starting dose is 5 mcg/kg/day subcutaneous injection, short intravenous infusion (15 to 30 minutes), or continuous intravenous infusion. See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage adjustments and timing of administration ( 2.1 ) Patients with cancer undergoing bone marrow transplantation 10 mcg/kg/day given as an intravenous infusion no longer than 24 hours. See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage adjustments and timing of administration. ( 2.2 ) Patients undergoing autologous peripheral blood progenitor cell collection and therapy 10 mcg/kg/day subcutaneous injection ( 2.3 ) Administer for at least 4 days before first leukapheresis procedure and continue until last leukapheresis ( 2.3 ) Patients with congenital neutropenia Recommended starting dose is 6 mcg/kg subcutaneous injection twice daily ( 2.4 ) Patients with cyclic or idiopathic neutropenia Recommended starting dose is 5 mcg/kg subcutaneous injection daily ( 2.4 ) Patients acutely exposed to myelosuppressive doses of radiation 10 mcg/kg/day subcutaneous injection ( 2.5 ) Direct administration of less than 0.3 mL (180 mcg) using RELEUKO prefilled syringe is not recommended due to potential for dosing errors. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Dosage in Patients with Cancer Receiving Myelosuppressive Chemotherapy or Induction and/or Consolidation Chemotherapy for AML The recommended starting dosage of RELEUKO is 5 mcg/kg/day‚ administered as a single daily injection by subcutaneous injection‚ by short intravenous infusion (15 to 30 minutes)‚ or by continuous intravenous infusion. Obtain a complete blood count (CBC) and platelet count before instituting RELEUKO therapy and monitor twice weekly during therapy. Consider dose escalation in increments of 5 mcg/kg for each chemotherapy cycle‚ according to the duration and severity of the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) nadir. Recommend stopping RELEUKO if the ANC increases beyond 10‚000/mm 3 [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. Administer RELEUKO at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy. Do not administer RELEUKO within the 24- hour period prior to chemotherapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )]. A transient increase in neutrophil count is typically seen 1 to 2 days after initiation of RELEUKO therapy. Therefore, to ensure a sustained therapeutic response administer RELEUKO daily for up to 2 weeks or until the ANC has reached 10‚000/mm 3 following the expected chemotherapy-induced neutrophil nadir. The duration of RELEUKO therapy needed to attenuate chemotherapy-induced neutropenia may be dependent on the myelosuppressive potential of the chemotherapy regimen employed. 2.2 Dosage in Patients with Cancer Undergoing Bone Marrow Transplantation The recommended dosage of RELEUKO following bone marrow transplantation (BMT) is 10 mcg/kg/day given as an intravenous infusion no longer than 24 hours. Administer the first dose of RELEUKO at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy and at least 24 hours after bone marrow infusion. Monitor CBCs and platelet counts frequently following marrow transplantation. During the period of neutrophil recovery‚ titrate the daily dosage of RELEUKO against the neutrophil response (see Table 1). Table 1. Recommended Dosage Adjustments During Neutrophil Recovery in Patients with Cancer Following BMT Absolute Neutrophil Count RELEUKO Dosage Adjustment When ANC greater than 1,000/mm 3 for 3 consecutive days Reduce to 5 mcg/kg/day a Then, if ANC remains greater than 1,000/mm 3 for 3 more consecutive days Discontinue RELEUKO Then, if ANC decreases to less than 1,000/mm 3 Resume at 5 mcg/kg/day a If ANC decreases to less than 1,000/mm 3 at any time during the 5 mcg/kg/day administration‚ increase RELEUKO to 10 mcg/kg/day‚ and then follow the above steps. 2.3 Dosage in Patients Undergoing Autologous Peripheral Blood Progenitor Cell Collection and Therapy The recommended dosage of RELEUKO for the mobilization of autologous peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) is 10 mcg/kg/day given by subcutaneous injection. Administer RELEUKO for at least 4 days before the first leukapheresis procedure and continue until the last leukapheresis. Although the optimal duration of RELEUKO administration and leukapheresis schedule have not been established‚ administration of filgrastim for 6 to 7 days with leukaphereses on days 5‚ 6‚ and 7 was found to be safe and effective [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Monitor neutrophil counts after 4 days of RELEUKO‚ and discontinue RELEUKO if the white blood cell (WBC) count rises to greater than 100‚000/mm 3 . 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Severe Chronic Neutropenia Prior to starting RELEUKO in patients with suspected chronic neutropenia, confirm the diagnosis of severe chronic neutropenia (SCN) by evaluating serial CBCs with differential and platelet counts‚ and evaluating bone marrow morphology and karyotype. The use of RELEUKO prior to confirmation of a correct diagnosis of SCN may impair diagnostic efforts and may thus impair or delay evaluation and treatment of an underlying condition‚ other than SCN‚ causing the neutropenia. The recommended starting dosage in patients with Congenital Neutropenia is 6 mcg/kg as a twice daily subcutaneous injection and the recommended starting dosage in patients with Idiopathic or Cyclic Neutropenia is 5 mcg/kg as a single daily subcutaneous injection. Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Severe Chronic Neutropenia Chronic daily administration is required to maintain clinical benefit. Individualize the dosage based on the patient’s clinical course as well as ANC. In the SCN postmarketing surveillance study, the reported median daily doses of filgrastim were: 6 mcg/kg (congenital neutropenia), 2.1 mcg/kg (cyclic neutropenia), and 1.2 mcg/kg (idiopathic neutropenia). In rare instances, patients with congenital neutropenia have required doses of filgrastim greater than or equal to 100 mcg/kg/day. Monitor CBCs for Dosage Adjustments During the initial 4 weeks of RELEUKO therapy and during the 2 weeks following any dosage adjustment‚ monitor CBCs with differential and platelet counts. Once a patient is clinically stable‚ monitor CBCs with differential and platelet counts monthly during the first year of treatment. Thereafter, if the patient is clinically stable, less frequent routine monitoring is recommended. 2.5 Dosage in Patients Acutely Exposed to Myelosuppressive Doses of Radiation (Hematopoietic Syndrome of Acute Radiation Syndrome) The recommended dose of RELEUKO is 10 mcg/kg as a single daily subcutaneous injection for patients exposed to myelosuppressive doses of radiation. Administer RELEUKO as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to radiation doses greater than 2 gray (Gy). Estimate a patient’s absorbed radiation dose (i.e., level of radiation exposure) based on information from public health authorities, biodosimetry if available, or clinical findings such as time to onset of vomiting or lymphocyte depletion kinetics. Obtain a baseline CBC and then serial CBCs approximately every third day until the ANC remains greater than 1,000/mm 3 for 3 consecutive CBCs. Do not delay administration of RELEUKO if a CBC is not readily available. Continue administration of RELEUKO until the ANC remains greater than 1,000/mm 3 for 3 consecutive CBCs or exceeds 10,000/mm 3 after a radiation-induced nadir. 2.6 Important Administration Instructions RELEUKO is supplied in single-dose vials (for subcutaneous use or intravenous infusion) and single-dose prefilled syringes (for subcutaneous use) [see Dosage Forms and Strengths (3) ]. Prior to use‚ remove the vial or prefilled syringe from the refrigerator and allow RELEUKO to reach room temperature for a minimum of 30 minutes and a maximum of 24 hours. Discard any vial or prefilled syringe left at room temperature for greater than 24 hours. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit (the solution is clear and colorless). Do not administer RELEUKO if particulates or discoloration are observed. Discard unused portion of RELEUKO in vials or prefilled syringes; do not re-enter the vial. Do not save unused drug for later administration. Subcutaneous Injection Inject RELEUKO subcutaneously in the outer area of upper arms, abdomen, thighs, or upper outer areas of the buttock. If patients or caregivers are to administer RELEUKO, instruct them in appropriate injection technique and ask them to follow the subcutaneous injection procedures in the Instructions for Use for the vial or prefilled syringe [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . Patient self-administration and administration by a caregiver may benefit from training by a healthcare professional. Training by the healthcare provider should aim to demonstrate to those patients and caregivers how to measure the dose of RELEUKO, and the focus should be on ensuring that a patient or caregiver can successfully perform all the steps in the Instructions for Use for the vial or prefilled syringe. If a patient or caregiver is not able to demonstrate that they can measure the dose and administer the product successfully, you should consider whether the patient is an appropriate candidate for self-administration of RELEUKO or whether the patient would benefit from a different RELEUKO presentation. If a patient or caregiver experiences difficulty measuring the required dose, especially if it is other than the entire contents of the RELEUKO prefilled syringe, use of the RELEUKO vial may be considered. If the patient or caregiver misses a dose of RELEUKO, instruct them to contact their healthcare provider. Administration Instructions for the Prefilled Syringe The RELUEKO prefilled syringe with BD UltraSafe Plus™ Passive Needle Guard is not designed to allow for direct administration of doses of less than 0.3 mL (180 mcg). The spring-mechanism of the needle guard apparatus affixed to the prefilled syringe interferes with the visibility of the graduation markings on the syringe barrel corresponding to 0.1 mL and 0.2 mL. The visibility of these markings is necessary to accurately measure doses of RELEUKO less than 0.3 mL (180 mcg) for direct administration. Thus, the direct administration to patients requiring doses of less than 0.3 mL (180 mcg) is not recommended due to the potential for dosing errors. For direct administration of doses less than 0.3 mL (180 mcg) use RELUEKO single-dose vial. Administration Instructions for Dilution (Vial Only) If required for intravenous administration‚ RELEUKO (vial only) may be diluted in 5% Dextrose Injection, USP from a concentration of 300 mcg/mL to 5 mcg/mL (do not dilute to a final concentration less than 5 mcg/mL). RELEUKO diluted to concentrations from 5 mcg/mL to 15 mcg/mL should be protected from adsorption to plastic materials by the addition of Albumin (Human) to a final concentration of 2 mg/mL. When diluted in 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 5% Dextrose plus Albumin (Human)‚ RELEUKO is compatible with glass bottles‚ polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and polyolefin intravenous bags‚ and polypropylene syringes. Do not dilute with saline at any time because the product may precipitate. Diluted RELEUKO solution can be stored at room temperature for up to 4 hours. This 4-hour time period includes the time during room temperature storage of the infusion solution and the duration of the infusion.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING RELEUKO (filgrastim-ayow) injection is a clear, colorless, preservative-free solution supplied as: Vials Single-dose vials containing 300 mcg/mL of filgrastim-ayow. Dispensing packs of 10 vials (NDC 70121-1569-7). Single-dose vials containing 480 mcg/1.6 mL (300 mcg/mL) of filgrastim-ayow. Dispensing packs of 10 vials (NDC 70121-1571-7). Prefilled Syringes Single-dose, prefilled syringe with 27 gauge, 1/2 inch needle with an UltraSafe Plus TM Needle Guard, containing 300 mcg/0.5 mL of filgrastim-ayow. Carton of one single-dose prefilled syringe (NDC 70121-1568-1) Pack of 10 prefilled syringes (NDC 70121-1568-7). Single-dose, prefilled syringe with 27 gauge, 1/2 inch needle with an UltraSafe Plus TM Needle Guard, containing 480 mcg/0.8 mL of filgrastim-ayow. Carton of one single-dose prefilled syringe (NDC 70121-1570-1) Pack of 10 prefilled syringes (NDC 70121-1570-7). Store RELEUKO refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in the original pack to protect from light. Do not leave RELEUKO in direct sunlight. DO NOT freeze RELEUKO. Avoid shaking. Transport via a pneumatic tube has not been studied.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 74e1ec6e-1630-4654-895c-2bd355f939e7
