Name: Flibanserin

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ADDYI is indicated for the treatment of premenopausal women with acquired, generalized hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD), as characterized by low sexual desire that causes marked distress or interpersonal difficulty and is NOT due to: • A co-existing medical or psychiatric condition, • Problems within the relationship, or • The effects of a medication or other drug substance. Acquired HSDD refers to HSDD that develops in a patient who previously had no problems with sexual desire. Generalized HSDD refers to HSDD that occurs regardless of the type of stimulation, situation or partner. Limitations of Use • ADDYI is not indicated for the treatment of HSDD in postmenopausal women or in men. • ADDYI is not indicated to enhance sexual performance. ADDYI is indicated for the treatment of premenopausal women with acquired, generalized hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD) as characterized by low sexual desire that causes marked distress or interpersonal difficulty and is NOT due to: • A co-existing medical or psychiatric condition, • Problems within the relationship, or • The effects of a medication or other drug substance. (1) Limitations of Use: • ADDYI is not indicated for the treatment of HSDD in postmenopausal women or in men. (1) • ADDYI is not indicated to enhance sexual performance. (1)

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dosage is 100 mg taken once daily at bedtime (2.1) • ADDYI is dosed at bedtime because administration during waking hours increases risks of hypotension, syncope, accidental injury, and central nervous system (CNS) depression (2.1) • Discontinue treatment after 8 weeks if no improvement (2.3) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of ADDYI is 100 mg administered orally once per day at bedtime. ADDYI is dosed at bedtime because administration during waking hours increases the risks of hypotension, syncope, accidental injury, and central nervous system (CNS) depression (such as somnolence and sedation) . 2.2 Missed Dose If a dose of ADDYI is missed at bedtime, instruct the patient to take the next dose at bedtime on the next day. Instruct the patient to not double the next dose. 2.3 Discontinuation of ADDYI Discontinue ADDYI after 8 weeks if the patient does not report an improvement in her symptoms. 2.4 Initiation of ADDYI Following Moderate or Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitor Use If initiating ADDYI following moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor use, start ADDYI 2 weeks after the last dose of the CYP3A4 inhibitor. If initiating a moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor following ADDYI use, start the moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor 2 days after the last dose of ADDYI [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of ADDYI is 100 mg administered orally once per day at bedtime. ADDYI is dosed at bedtime because administration during waking hours increases the risks of hypotension, syncope, accidental injury, and central nervous system (CNS) depression (such as somnolence and sedation) . 2.2 Missed Dose If a dose of ADDYI is missed at bedtime, instruct the patient to take the next dose at bedtime on the next day. Instruct the patient to not double the next dose. 2.3 Discontinuation of ADDYI Discontinue ADDYI after 8 weeks if the patient does not report an improvement in her symptoms. 2.4 Initiation of ADDYI Following Moderate or Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitor Use If initiating ADDYI following moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor use, start ADDYI 2 weeks after the last dose of the CYP3A4 inhibitor. If initiating a moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor following ADDYI use, start the moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor 2 days after the last dose of ADDYI [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ].

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING ADDYI is available as a 100 mg oval, pink, film-coated tablet debossed on one side with “f100” and blank on the other side. Available in bottles of 30 tablets. (NDC 58604-214-30) Storage Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15°-30°C (59°-86°F) [see USP controlled room temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 3819daf3-e935-2c53-c527-e1d57922f394
