Name: Fluorouracil

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluorouracil Cream is recommended for the topical treatment of multiple actinic or solar keratoses. In the 5% strength, it is also useful in the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinomas when conventional methods are impractical, such as with multiple lesions or difficult treatment sites. Safety and efficacy in other indications have not been established. The diagnosis should be established prior to treatment, since this method has not been proven effective in other types of basal cell carcinomas. With isolated, easily accessible basal cell carcinomas, surgery is preferred since success with such lesions is almost 100%. The success rate with Fluorouracil Cream is approximately 93%, based on 113 lesions in 54 patients. Eighty-eight lesions treated with the cream produced 7 failures.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When Fluorouracil Cream is applied to a lesion, a response occurs with the following sequence: erythema, usually followed by vesiculation, desquamation, erosion, and re-epithelialization. Fluorouracil Cream should be applied preferably with a nonmetal applicator or suitable glove. If Fluorouracil Cream is applied with the fingers, the hands should be washed immediately afterward. Actinic or Solar Keratosis Apply cream twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions. Medication should be continued until the inflammatory response reaches the erosion stage, at which time use of the drug should be terminated. The usual duration of therapy is from 2 to 4 weeks. Complete healing of the lesions may not be evident for 1 to 2 months following cessation of Fluorouracil Cream therapy. Superficial Basal Cell Carcinomas Only the 5% strength is recommended. Apply cream twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions. Treatment should be continued for at least 3 to 6 weeks. Therapy may be required for as long as 10 to 12 weeks before the lesions are obliterated. As in any neoplastic condition, the patient should be followed for a reasonable period of time to determine if a cure has been obtained.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Fluorouracil Cream, USP 5% is available in 40 g tubes containing 5% fluorouracil (NDC 51862-362-40) in a vanishing cream base consisting of white petrolatum, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, propylene glycol, polysorbate 60, parabens (methyl and propyl), and purified water. Store at 20 - 25°C (68 - 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. WARNINGS Application to mucous membranes should be avoided due to the possibility of local inflammation and ulceration. Additionally, cases of miscarriage and a birth defect (ventricular septal defect) have been reported when Fluorouracil Cream was applied to mucous membrane areas during pregnancy. Occlusion of the skin with resultant hydration has been shown to increase percutaneous penetration of several topical preparations. If any occlusive dressing is used in treatment of basal cell carcinoma, there may be an increase in the severity of inflammatory reactions in the adjacent normal skin. A porous gauze dressing may be applied for cosmetic reasons without increase in reaction. Exposure to ultraviolet rays should be minimized during and immediately following treatment with Fluorouracil Cream because the intensity of the reaction may be increased. Patients should discontinue therapy with Fluorouracil Cream if symptoms of DPD enzyme deficiency develop (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Rarely, life-threatening toxicities such as stomatitis, diarrhea, neutropenia, and neurotoxicity have been reported with intravenous administration of fluorouracil in patients with DPD enzyme deficiency. One case of life-threatening systemic toxicity has been reported with the topical use of Fluorouracil Cream in a patient with DPD enzyme deficiency. Symptoms included severe abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, vomiting, fever, and chills. Physical examination revealed stomatitis, erythematous skin rash, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, inflammation of the esophagus, stomach, and small bowel. Although this case was observed with 5% fluorouracil cream, it is unknown whether patients with profound DPD enzyme deficiency would develop systemic toxicity with lower concentrations of topically applied fluorouracil.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 06475bd8-66d9-4f88-90e4-b367480dab39
