Name: Fluvastatin

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of undergoing coronary revascularization procedures and slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in adults with clinically evident coronary heart disease. As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) who require 80 mg of fluvastatin daily. Fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets are indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of undergoing coronary revascularization procedures and slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in adults with clinically evident coronary heart disease. As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) who require 80 mg

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets can be taken with or without food and may be taken at any time of the day. (2.1) Do not break, crush or chew fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets prior to administration. (2.1) Adults : The recommended starting dose is 80 mg (administered as one 80 mg fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablet once daily). (2.2) Children : The recommended dose is 80 mg once daily in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older who require 80 mg of fluvastatin. Fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets are not recommended for dosage initiation in pediatric patients because the recommended starting dosage cannot be achieved with the available strength of 80 mg. (2.3) 2.1 Important Dosage Information Take fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets orally once daily as a single dose, with or without food. Do not break, crush, or chew fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets. Fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablet is only available as an 80 mg tablet. Fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets cannot be titrated [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)]. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended dosage for fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets is 80 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH Fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets are not recommended for dosage initiation in pediatric patients because the recommended starting dosage cannot be achieved with the available strength of 80 mg. Recommend use of another fluvastatin product to initiate dosing in pediatric patients. The recommended dosage of fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets is 80 mg once daily in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older who require 80 mg of fluvastatin.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Fluvastatin sodium extended-release tablets supplied as: Strength How supplied NDC Tablet description 80 mg of fluvastatin bottles of 30 0527-2580-32 Yellow, round, slightly biconvex film-coated tablets, imprinted with “BS08” and “80” on one side, plain on the other side. bottles of 100 0527-2580-37 Store and Dispense Store at 20ºC to 25ºC (68ºF to 77ºF); excursions permitted to15ºC to 30ºC (59ºF to 86ºF) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight container. Protect from light.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 3565bfd3-ef9f-456d-b4be-a294a7a0f01c
