Name: Formoterol

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution is a long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (beta 2 -agonist) indicated for: Long-term, twice daily (morning and evening) administration in the maintenance treatment of bronchoconstriction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. ( 1.1 ) Important limitations of use: Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution is not indicated to treat acute deteriorations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. ( 1.2 , 5.2 ) Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution is not indicated to treat asthma. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Maintenance Treatment of COPD Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution is indicated for the long-term, twice daily (morning and evening) administration in the maintenance treatment of bronchoconstriction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. 1.2 Important Limitations of Use Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution is not indicated to treat acute deteriorations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )]. Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution is not indicated to treat asthma. The safety and effectiveness of formoterol fumarate inhalation solution in asthma have not been established.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of formoterol fumarate inhalation solution is one 20 mcg unit-dose vial administered twice daily (morning and evening) by nebulization. A total daily dose greater than 40 mcg is not recommended. Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution should be administered by the orally inhaled route via a standard jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor. The safety and efficacy of formoterol fumarate inhalation solution have been established in clinical trials when administered using the PARI-LC Plus ® nebulizer (with a facemask or mouthpiece) and the PRONEB ® Ultra compressor. The safety and efficacy of formoterol fumarate inhalation solution delivered from non-compressor based nebulizer systems have not been established. Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution should always be stored in the foil pouch, and only removed IMMEDIATELY BEFORE USE. Contents of any partially used container should be discarded. If the recommended maintenance treatment regimen fails to provide the usual response, medical advice should be sought immediately, as this is often a sign of destabilization of COPD. Under these circumstances, the therapeutic regimen should be re-evaluated and additional therapeutic options should be considered. The drug compatibility (physical and chemical), efficacy, and safety of formoterol fumarate inhalation solution when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established. For oral inhalation only. One 20 mcg/2 mL vial every 12 hours. ( 2 ) For use with a standard jet nebulizer (with a facemask or mouthpiece) connected to an air compressor. ( 2 )

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution, 20 mcg/2mL is supplied as clear, colorless sterile solution for nebulization in 3 mL low-density polyethylene unit dose vials. Each vial is overwrapped in a foil pouch and supplied in cartons as listed below. Carton of 30 individually wrapped unit dose vials, NDC 42571-463-73 Carton of 60 individually wrapped unit dose vials, NDC 42571-463-62 Storage and Handling: Prior to dispensing to the patient : Store in a refrigerator, 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). Protect pouch from light and heat. After dispensing to the patient: Store in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) and discard when drug expires or store at room temperature, 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) and discard if not used after 3 months. Protect pouch from light and heat. Formoterol fumarate inhalation solution should only be administered via a standard jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor with an adequate airflow and equipped with a facemask or mouthpiece. Vial should always be stored in the foil pouch, and only removed IMMEDIATELY before use. Do not take by mouth. Contents of any partially used container should be discarded. Discard the container and top after use. Keep out of the reach of children

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0796acea-70d6-479f-af48-18723b1efd2a
