Name: Fosfomycin

introduction: INDICATIONS & USAGE Fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution is indicated only for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) in women due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli and Enterococcus faecalis . Fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscess. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution, other therapeutic agents should be selected. (See PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL STUDIES sections.)

dosage_text: DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage for women 18 years of age and older for uncomplicated urinary tract infection (acute cystitis) is one sachet of fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution. Fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution may be taken with or without food. Fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution should not be taken in its dry form. Always mix fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution with water before ingesting. (See PREPARATION section.) PREPARATION Fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution should be taken orally. Pour the entire contents of a single-dose sachet of fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution into 3 to 4 ounces of water (1/2 cup) and stir to dissolve. Do not use hot water. Fosfomycin tromethamine granules for oral solution should be taken immediately after dissolving in water.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Fosfomycin Granules for Oral Solution is available as a single-dose sachet containing the equivalent of 3 grams of fosfomycin. NDC Single-dose sachet 67877-749-57 One unit carton 67877-749-57 Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15°C and 30°C (59°F and 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children. WARNINGS Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including fosfomycin tromethamine, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 48e352bc-52ea-4778-905a-60ef38a5c18a
