Name: Frovatriptan

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Frovatriptan succinate tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. Limitations of Use • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established. If a patient has no response for the first migraine attack treated with frovatriptan succinate tablets, reconsider the diagnosis of migraine before frovatriptan succinate tablets are administered to treat any subsequent attacks. • Frovatriptan succinate tablets are not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. • Safety and effectiveness of frovatriptan succinate tablets have not been established for cluster headache. Frovatriptan succinate is a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults ( 1 ) Limitations of Use • Use only after a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established ( 1 ) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine ( 1 ) • Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosing Information The recommended dose is a single tablet of frovatriptan succinate (frovatriptan 2.5 mg) taken orally with fluids. If the migraine recurs after initial relief, a second tablet may be taken, providing there is an interval of at least 2 hours between doses. The total daily dose of frovatriptan succinate tablets should not exceed 3 tablets (3 × 2.5 mg per 24-hour period). There is no evidence that a second dose of frovatriptan succinate tablets is effective in patients who do not respond to a first dose of the drug for the same headache. The safety of treating an average of more than 4 migraine attacks in a 30-day period has not been established. • 1 tablet taken with fluids. Second tablet may be taken 2 hours after initial dose if headache recurs following initial relief. Total dose not to exceed 3 tablets in any 24-hour period ( 2 )

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Frovatriptan succinate tablets, containing 2.5 mg of frovatriptan (base) as the succinate, are available as white to off-white, circular biconvex film-coated tablets, debossed with ‘72’ on one side and ‘G’ on the other side. The tablets are available in: Blister card of 9 tablets, 1 blister card per carton (NDC 68462-694-97) Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 03a58215-dba7-4f63-8b98-d74d054a574a
