Name: Furosemide

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Edema Furosemide tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Furosemide tablets are particularly useful when an agent with greater diuretic potential is desired. Hypertension Oral furosemide may be used in adults for the treatment of hypertension alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Hypertensive patients who cannot be adequately controlled with thiazides will probably also not be adequately controlled with furosemide alone. Edema Furosemide tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Furosemide tablets are particularly useful when an agent with greater diuretic potential is desired. Hypertension Oral furosemide may be used in adults for the treatment of hypertension alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Hypertensive patients who cannot be adequately controlled with thiazides will probably also not be adequately controlled with furosemide alone.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Edema Therapy should be individualized according to patient response to gain maximal therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose needed to maintain that response. Adults: The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. Ordinarily a prompt diuresis ensues. If needed, the same dose can be administered 6 to 8 hours later or the dose may be increased. The dose may be raised by 20 or 40 mg and given not sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. The individually determined single dose should then be given once or twice daily (e.g., at 8 am and 2 pm). The dose of furosemide tablets may be carefully titrated up to 600 mg/day in patients with clinically severe edematous states. Edema may be most efficiently and safely mobilized by giving furosemide tablets on 2 to 4 consecutive days each week. When doses exceeding 80 mg/day are given for prolonged periods, careful clinical observation and laboratory monitoring are particularly advisable (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ). Geriatric Patients: In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Pediatric Patients: The usual initial dose of oral furosemide in pediatric patients is 2 mg/kg body weight, given as a single dose. If the diuretic response is not satisfactory after the initial dose, dosage may be increased by 1 or 2 mg/kg no sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose. Doses greater than 6 mg/kg body weight are not recommended. For maintenance therapy in pediatric patients, the dose should be adjusted to the minimum effective level. Hypertension Therapy should be individualized according to the patient's response to gain maximal therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose needed to maintain the therapeutic response. Adults: The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets for hypertension is 80 mg, usually divided into 40 mg twice a day. Dosage should then be adjusted according to response. If response is not satisfactory, add other antihypertensive agents. Changes in blood pressure must be carefully monitored when furosemide tablets are used with other antihypertensive drugs, especially during initial therapy. To prevent excessive drop in blood pressure, the dosage of other agents should be reduced by at least 50 percent when furosemide tablets are added to the regimen. As the blood pressure falls under the potentiating effect of furosemide tablets, a further reduction in dosage or even discontinuation of other antihypertensive drugs may be necessary. Geriatric Patients: In general, dose selection and dose adjustment for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Edema Therapy should be individualized according to patient response to gain maximal therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose needed to maintain that response. Adults: The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. Ordinarily a prompt diuresis ensues. If needed, the same dose can be administered 6 to 8 hours later or the dose may be increased. The dose may be raised by 20 or 40 mg and given not sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. The individually determined single dose should then be given once or twice daily (e.g., at 8 am and 2 pm). The dose of furosemide tablets may be carefully titrated up to 600 mg/day in patients with clinically severe edematous states. Edema may be most efficiently and safely mobilized by giving furosemide tablets on 2 to 4 consecutive days each week. When doses exceeding 80 mg/day are given for prolonged periods, careful clinical observation and laboratory monitoring are particularly advisable (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ). Geriatric Patients: In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Pediatric Patients: The usual initial dose of oral furosemide in pediatric patients is 2 mg/kg body weight, given as a single dose. If the diuretic response is not satisfactory after the initial dose, dosage may be increased by 1 or 2 mg/kg no sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose. Doses greater than 6 mg/kg body weight are not recommended. For maintenance therapy in pediatric patients, the dose should be adjusted to the minimum effective level. Adults: The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. Ordinarily a prompt diuresis ensues. If needed, the same dose can be administered 6 to 8 hours later or the dose may be increased. The dose may be raised by 20 or 40 mg and given not sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. The individually determined single dose should then be given once or twice daily (e.g., at 8 am and 2 pm). The dose of furosemide tablets may be carefully titrated up to 600 mg/day in patients with clinically severe edematous states. Edema may be most efficiently and safely mobilized by giving furosemide tablets on 2 to 4 consecutive days each week. When doses exceeding 80 mg/day are given for prolonged periods, careful clinical observation and laboratory monitoring are particularly advisable (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ). Hypertension Therapy should be individualized according to the patient's response to gain maximal therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose needed to maintain the therapeutic response. Adults: The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets for hypertension is 80 mg, usually divided into 40 mg twice a day. Dosage should then be adjusted according to response. If response is not satisfactory, add other antihypertensive agents. Changes in blood pressure must be carefully monitored when furosemide tablets are used with other antihypertensive drugs, especially during initial therapy. To prevent excessive drop in blood pressure, the dosage of other agents should be reduced by at least 50 percent when furosemide tablets are added to the regimen. As the blood pressure falls under the potentiating effect of furosemide tablets, a further reduction in dosage or even discontinuation of other antihypertensive drugs may be necessary. Geriatric Patients: In general, dose selection and dose adjustment for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Adults: The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets for hypertension is 80 mg, usually divided into 40 mg twice a day. Dosage should then be adjusted according to response. If response is not satisfactory, add other antihypertensive agents. Changes in blood pressure must be carefully monitored when furosemide tablets are used with other antihypertensive drugs, especially during initial therapy. To prevent excessive drop in blood pressure, the dosage of other agents should be reduced by at least 50 percent when furosemide tablets are added to the regimen. As the blood pressure falls under the potentiating effect of furosemide tablets, a further reduction in dosage or even discontinuation of other antihypertensive drugs may be necessary.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Furosemide Tablets, USP 80 mg: White-off white, round, scored, debossed "3171" over "V" on one side and plain on the reverse side, available as follows: • Bottles of 500: NDC 63629-1120-1 You may report side effects to Solco Healthcare US, LLC at 1-866-257-2597 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . STORAGE Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light. Dispense in well-closed, light-resistant containers. Exposure to light might cause a slight discoloration. Discolored tablets should not be dispensed. WARNING Furosemide is a potent diuretic which, if given in excessive amounts, can lead to a profound diuresis with water and electrolyte depletion. Therefore, careful medical supervision is required and dose and dose schedule must be adjusted to the individual patient's needs (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). WARNINGS In patients with hepatic cirrhosis and ascites, furosemide therapy is best initiated in the hospital. In hepatic coma and in states of electrolyte depletion, therapy should not be instituted until the basic condition is improved. Sudden alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance in patients with cirrhosis may precipitate hepatic coma; therefore, strict observation is necessary during the period of diuresis. Supplemental potassium chloride and, if required, an aldosterone antagonist are helpful in preventing hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis. If increasing azotemia and oliguria occur during treatment of severe progressive renal disease, furosemide should be discontinued. Cases of tinnitus and reversible or irreversible hearing impairment and deafness have been reported. Reports usually indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection, severe renal impairment, the use of higher than recommended doses, hypoproteinemia or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics, ethacrynic acid, or other ototoxic drugs. If the physician elects to use high dose parenteral therapy, controlled intravenous infusion is advisable (for adults, an infusion rate not exceeding 4 mg furosemide per minute has been used) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 01a5f094-b473-4e46-9e61-69d5ec6dd766
