Name: Glatiramer

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glatopa is indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults. Glatopa is indicated for the treatment of relapsing-forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults ( 1 ).

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For subcutaneous injection only; doses are not interchangeable ( 2.1 ) • Glatopa 20 mg/mL per day ( 2.1 ) • Glatopa 40 mg/mL three times per week ( 2.1 ) • Before use, allow the solution to warm to room temperature ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dose Glatopa is for subcutaneous use only. Do not administer intravenously. The dosing schedule depends on the product strength that is selected. The recommended doses are: • Glatopa 20 mg per mL: administer once per day or • Glatopa 40 mg per mL: administer three times per week and at least 48 hours apart. Glatopa 20 mg per mL and Glatopa 40 mg per mL are not interchangeable. 2.2 Instructions for Use Remove one blister-packaged pre-filled syringe from the refrigerated carton. Let the pre-filled syringe stand at room temperature for 20 minutes to allow the solution to warm to room temperature. Visually inspect the syringe for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The solution in the syringe should appear clear, colorless to slightly yellow. If particulate matter or discoloration is observed, discard the syringe. Areas for subcutaneous self-injection include arms, abdomen, hips, and thighs. The pre-filled syringe is for single use only. Discard unused portions.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Glatopa (glatiramer acetate injection) is a clear, colorless to slightly yellow, sterile, nonpyrogenic solution in a 1 mL single-dose glass syringe with attached 1/2 inch length, 29 gauge needle supplied as: 40 mg per mL in a single-dose, pre-filled syringe with a blue plunger, in individual blister packages supplied in 12-count cartons (NDC: 63629-8816-1) Store Glatopa refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). If needed, the patient may store Glatopa at room temperature, 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F), for up to one month, but refrigeration is preferred. Avoid exposure to higher temperatures or intense light. Do not freeze Glatopa. If a Glatopa syringe freezes, it should be discarded. Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 028fdf0e-2340-407b-bcd8-5a99accdddbf
