Name: Golimumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SIMPONI ARIA is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker indicated for the treatment of: Adult patients with moderately to severely active Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) in combination with methotrexate ( 1.1 ) Active Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA) in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.2 ) Adult patients with active Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.3 ) Active polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA) in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) SIMPONI ARIA, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis. 1.2 Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA) SIMPONI ARIA is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.3 Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) SIMPONI ARIA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. 1.4 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA) SIMPONI ARIA is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) in patients 2 years of age and older.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis, and Ankylosing Spondylitis: 2 mg/kg intravenous infusion over 30 minutes at weeks 0 and 4, and every 8 weeks thereafter ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients with polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis and Psoriatic Arthritis: 80 mg/m 2 intravenous infusion over 30 minutes at weeks 0 and 4, and every 8 weeks thereafter ( 2.2 ) Dilution of supplied SIMPONI ARIA solution with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP is required prior to administration. Alternatively, 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP can also be used ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults with Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis, and Ankylosing Spondylitis The SIMPONI ARIA dosage regimen is 2 mg per kg given as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes at weeks 0 and 4, and every 8 weeks thereafter. Follow the dilution and administration instructions for SIMPONI ARIA [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . For patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), SIMPONI ARIA should be given in combination with methotrexate. The efficacy and safety of switching between intravenous and subcutaneous formulations and routes of administration have not been established. 2.2 Dosage in Pediatric Patients with Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis and Psoriatic Arthritis The SIMPONI ARIA dosage regimen, based on body surface area (BSA), is 80 mg/m 2 given as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes at weeks 0 and 4, and every 8 weeks thereafter. Follow the dilution and administration instructions for SIMPONI ARIA [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . 2.3 Evaluation for Tuberculosis and Hepatitis B Prior to Dosage Prior to initiating SIMPONI ARIA and periodically during therapy, evaluate patients for active tuberculosis and test for latent infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Prior to initiating SIMPONI ARIA, test patients for hepatitis B viral infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.4 Important Administration Instructions SIMPONI ARIA solution for intravenous infusion should be diluted by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique as follows: Calculate the dosage and the number of SIMPONI ARIA vials needed based on the recommended adult dosage of 2 mg/kg and the patient's weight for RA, PsA and AS. Calculate the dosage and number of SIMPONI ARIA vials needed based on the recommended pediatric dosage of 80 mg/m 2 and the patient's body surface area (BSA), for pJIA and pediatric patients with PsA. Each 4 mL vial of SIMPONI ARIA contains 50 mg of golimumab. Check that the solution in each vial is colorless to light yellow. The solution may develop a few fine translucent particles, as golimumab is a protein. Do not use if opaque particles, discoloration, or other foreign particles are present. Dilute the total volume of the SIMPONI ARIA solution with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP to a final volume of 100 mL. For example, this can be accomplished by withdrawing a volume of the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP from the 100-mL infusion bag or bottle equal to the total volume of SIMPONI ARIA. Slowly add the total volume of SIMPONI ARIA solution to the 100-mL infusion bag or bottle. Gently mix. Discard any unused solution remaining in the vials. Alternatively, SIMPONI ARIA can be diluted using the same method described above with 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Prior to infusion, visually inspect the diluted SIMPONI ARIA solution for particulate matter or discoloration. Do not use if these are present. Use only an infusion set with an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein-binding filter (pore size 0.22 micrometer or less). Do not infuse SIMPONI ARIA concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other agents. No physical biochemical compatibility studies have been conducted to evaluate the use of SIMPONI ARIA with other intravenous agents in the same intravenous line. Infuse the diluted solution over 30 minutes. Once diluted, the infusion solution can be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING SIMPONI ARIA ® (golimumab) Injection is a colorless to light yellow solution available in packs of 1 vial NDC 57894-350-01. Vial Each single-dose vial contains 50 mg of SIMPONI ARIA per 4 mL of solution. Storage and Handling Refrigerate SIMPONI ARIA at 36 ⁰F to 46 ⁰F (2 ⁰C to 8 ⁰C) and protect from light. Keep the product in the original carton to protect from light until the time of use. Do not freeze. Do not shake. If needed, SIMPONI ARIA may be stored at room temperature up to 77 ºF (25 ºC) for a maximum single period of 30 days in the original carton to protect from light. Once SIMPONI ARIA has been stored at room temperature, do not return the product to the refrigerator. If not used within 30 days at room temperature, discard SIMPONI ARIA.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 9e260a47-55af-4c92-8d88-a86ccc767fff
