Name: Granisetron

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Granisetron is indicated for the prevention of: Nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer therapy, including high-dose cisplatin. Nausea and vomiting associated with radiation, including total body irradiation and fractionated abdominal radiation.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Emetogenic Chemotherapy The recommended adult dosage of oral granisetron hydrochloride is 2 mg once daily or 1 mg twice daily. In the 2 mg once-daily regimen, 10 mL of GRANISOL oral solution (2 teaspoonfuls, equivalent to 2 mg of granisetron) are given up to 1 hour before chemotherapy. In the 1 mg twice-daily regimen, the first teaspoonful (5 mL) of GRANISOL oral solution is given up to 1 hour before chemotherapy, and the second teaspoonful (5 mL) of GRANISOL oral solution, 12 hours after the first. Either regimen is administered only on the day(s) chemotherapy is given. Continued treatment, while not on chemotherapy, has not been found to be useful. Use in the Elderly, Renal Failure Patients or Hepatically Impaired Patients No dosage adjustment is recommended (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics ). Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. Radiation (Either Total Body Irradiation or Fractionated Abdominal Radiation) The recommended adult dosage of oral granisetron hydrochloride is 2 mg once daily. Ten milliliters of GRANISOL oral solution (2 teaspoonfuls, equivalent to 2 mg of granisetron) are taken within 1 hour of radiation. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. Use in the Elderly No dosage adjustment is recommended.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Oral Solution Clear, orange-colored, orange-flavored, 2 mg/10 mL, in 30 mL amber glass bottles with child-resistant closures: NDC 80056-801-30 Storage Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Keep bottle closed tightly and stored in an upright position. Protect from light. Distributed by Intra-Sana Laboratories LLC Las Vegas, NV 89113 WARNINGS Serotonin Syndrome The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5-HT3 receptor antagonists alone but particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs (e.g., selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors, mirtazapine, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, and intravenous methylene blue). Some of the reported cases were fatal. Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of another 5-HT3 receptor antagonist alone has also been reported. The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5-HT3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post-anesthesia care unit or an infusion center. Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome, especially with concomitant use of granisetron and other serotonergic drugs. If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur, discontinue granisetron and initiate supportive treatment. Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome, especially if granisetron is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs [see Drug Interactions ].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 2758eb4d-2fe0-4f74-b3f5-b4903009e97c
