Name: Griseofulvin

introduction: INDICASTIONS AND USAGE Griseofulvin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of dermatophyte infections of the skin not adequately treated by topical therapy, hair and nails, namely: Tinea corporis Tinea pedis Tinea cruris Tinea barbae Tinea capitis Tinea unguium when caused by one or more of the following species of fungi: Epidermophyton floccosum Microsporum audouinii Microsporum canis Microsporum gypseum Trichophyton crateriform Trichophyton gallinae Trichophyton interdigitalis Trichophyton megnini Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton rubrum Trichophyton schoenleini Trichophyton sulphureum Trichophyton tonsurans Trichophyton verrucosum Note: Prior to therapy, a dermatophyte should be identified as responsible for the infection. Prior to initiating treatment, appropriate specimens for laboratory testing (KOH preparation, fungal culture, or nail biopsy) should be obtained to confirm the diagnosis. Griseofulvin tablets, USP are not effective in the following: Bacterial infections Candidiasis (Moniliasis) Histoplasmosis Actinomycosis Sporotrichosis Chromoblastomycosis Coccidioidomycosis North American Blastomycosis Cryptococcosis (Torulosis) Tinea versicolor Nocardiosis The use of this drug is not justified in minor or trivial dermatophyte infections which will respond to topical agents alone.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Accurate diagnosis of the infecting organism is essential. Identification should be made either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium. Medication must be continued until the infecting organism is completely eradicated as indicated by appropriate clinical or laboratory examination. Representative treatment periods are tinea capitis, 4 to 6 weeks; tinea corporis, 2 to 4 weeks; tinea pedis, 4 to 8 weeks; tinea unguium – depending on rate of growth – fingernails, at least 4 months; toenails, at least 6 months. General measures in regard to hygiene should be observed to control sources of infection or reinfection. Concomitant use of appropriate topical agents is usually required, particularly in treatment of tinea pedis. In some forms of tinea pedis, yeasts and bacteria may be involved as well as dermatophytes. Griseofulvin tablets, USP will not eradicate hese associated bacterial or yeast infections. ADULTS : 0.5 g daily (125 mg q.i.d., 250 mg b.i.d., or 500 mg/day). Patients with less severe or 300 extensive infections may require less, whereas those with widespread lesions may require a starting dose of 0.75 g to 1 g/day. This may be reduced gradually to 0.5 g or less after a response has been noted. In all cases, the dosage should be individualized. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS (older than 2 years): A dosage of 10 mg/kg daily is usually adequate (pediatric patients from 30 to 50 lb, 125 mg to 250 mg daily; pediatric patients over 50 lb, 250 mg to 500 mg daily, in divided doses). Dosage should be individualized, as with adults. Clinical relapse will occur if the medication is not continued until the infecting organism is eradicated. Safety is not established at higher doses than recommended.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Griseofulvin Tablets, USP (microsize) 500 mg: are supplied as white to off white, round, scored tablets, debossed with ‘CE’ over ‘5’ on one side and a functional score on the other side. They are available as follows: Bottles of 100 tablets NDC 23155-865-01 Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Manufactured by: Chartwell Pharmaceuticals, LLC. Congers, NY 10920 Distributed by: Avet Pharmaceuticals Inc. East Brunswick, NJ 08816 1.866.901.DRUG (3784) Made in USA 51U000000434US01 Rev. 06/2023 image description WARNINGS Prophylactic Usage Safety and efficacy of griseofulvin for prophylaxis of fungal infections have not been established. Serious Skin Reactions Severe skin reactions (e.g. Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis) and erythema multiforme have been reported with griseofulvin use. These reactions may be serious and may result in hospitalization or death. If severe skin reactions occur, griseofulvin should be discontinued (see ADVERSE REACTIONS section). Hepatotoxicity Elevations in AST, ALT, bilirubin, and jaundice have been reported with griseofulvin use. These reactions may be serious and may result in hospitalization or death. Patients should be monitored for hepatic adverse events and discontinuation of griseofulvin considered if warranted (see ADVERSE REACTIONS section).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1c26d7a6-17d9-4a95-a4ee-cfc5fe6bb95d
