Name: Hemin

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PANHEMATIN is a hemin for injection indicated for the amelioration of recurrent attacks of acute intermittent porphyria temporally related to the menstrual cycle in susceptible women, after initial carbohydrate therapy is known or suspected to be inadequate. Limitations of Use • Before administering PANHEMATIN, consider an appropriate period of carbohydrate loading (i.e., 400 g glucose/day for 1 to 2 days) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . • Attacks of porphyria may progress to a point where irreversible neuronal damage has occurred. PANHEMATIN therapy is intended to prevent an attack from reaching the critical stage of neuronal degeneration. PANHEMATIN is not effective in repairing neuronal damage. PANHEMATIN is a hemin for injection indicated for amelioration of recurrent attacks of acute intermittent porphyria temporally related to the menstrual cycle in susceptible women, after initial carbohydrate therapy is known or suspected to be inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use • Before administering PANHEMATIN, consider an appropriate period of carbohydrate loading (i.e., 400 g glucose/day for 1 to 2 days). ( 1 ) • PANHEMATIN is not effective in repairing neuronal damage due to progression of porphyria attacks. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous infusion only. For intravenous infusion only. • Dose ( 2.1 ) o 1 to 4 mg/kg/day for 3 to 14 days based on the clinical signs. The standard dose in clinical practice is 3 to 4 mg/kg/day. o Repeat dose in more severe cases no earlier than every 12 hours. Do not exceed 6 mg/kg in any 24 hour period. • Administration ( 2.2 ) o Use sterile 0.45 micron or smaller filter to remove any undissolved particulate matter. o The dose may be administered directly from the vial over a period of at least 30 minutes. o After the infusion, flush the vein with 100 mL of 0.9% NaCl. Dose ( 2.1 ) 1 to 4 mg/kg/day for 3 to 14 days based on the clinical signs. The standard dose in clinical practice is 3 to 4 mg/kg/day. Repeat dose in more severe cases no earlier than every 12 hours. Do not exceed 6 mg/kg in any 24 hour period. Administration ( 2.2 ) Use sterile 0.45 micron or smaller filter to remove any undissolved particulate matter. The dose may be administered directly from the vial over a period of at least 30 minutes. After the infusion, flush the vein with 100 mL of 0.9% NaCl. 2.1 Dosing • PANHEMATIN should only be used by or in consultation with physicians experienced in the management of porphyrias. • Before PANHEMATIN therapy is begun, the presence of acute porphyria must be diagnosed using the following criteria: 1. Presence of clinical symptoms suggestive of acute porphyric attack. 2. Quantitative measurement of porphobilinogen (PBG) in urine. The single-void urine sample should be refrigerated or frozen without additives and shielded from light for subsequent quantitative δ-aminolevulinic acid (ALA), PBG, and total porphyrin determinations. (Note: the classical Watson-Schwartz or Hoesch tests are considered to be less reliable). • Clinical benefit from PANHEMATIN depends on prompt administration. For mild porphyric attacks (mild pain, no vomiting, no paralysis, no hyponatremia, no seizures), a trial of glucose therapy is recommended while awaiting hemin treatment or if hemin is unavailable. For moderate to severe attacks, immediate hemin treatment is recommended. Symptoms of severe attacks are severe or prolonged pain, persistent vomiting, hyponatremia, convulsion, psychosis, and neuropathy. In addition to treatment with PANHEMATIN, consider other necessary measures such as the elimination of triggering factors. • The dose of PANHEMATIN is 1 to 4 mg/kg/day of hematin for 3 to 14 days based on the clinical signs. The standard dose in clinical practice is 3 to 4 mg/kg/day. In more severe cases this dose may be repeated no earlier than every 12 hours. Do not exceed 6 mg/kg of hematin in any 24 hour period. After reconstitution each mL of PANHEMATIN contains the equivalent of approximately 7 mg of hematin (see dosage calculation table below). Dosage Calculation Table 1 mg hematin equivalent = 0.14 mL PANHEMATIN 2 mg hematin equivalent = 0.28 mL PANHEMATIN 3 mg hematin equivalent = 0.42 mL PANHEMATIN 4 mg hematin equivalent = 0.56 mL PANHEMATIN • Monitor urinary concentrations of the following compounds during PANHEMATIN therapy. Effectiveness is demonstrated by a decrease in one or more of the following compounds. ALA - δ-aminolevulinic acid PBG - porphobilinogen Uroporphyrin Coproporphyrin 2.2 Preparation and Administration • Because PANHEMATIN contains no preservative and undergoes rapid chemical decomposition in solution, it must be reconstituted immediately before use. • Reconstitute PANHEMATIN by aseptically adding 48 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, to the dispensing vial. Shake the vial well for a period of 2 to 3 minutes to aid dissolution. • PANHEMATIN may be administered directly from the vial. After the first withdrawal from the vial, discard any solution remaining. • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Since reconstituted PANHEMATIN is not transparent, any undissolved particulate matter is difficult to see when inspected visually. Therefore, terminal filtration through a sterile 0.45 micron or smaller filter is recommended. • Do not add other drug or chemical agent to a PANHEMATIN fluid admixture. • Infuse the dose over a period of at least 30 minutes via a separate line. • After the infusion, flush the vein with 100 mL of 0.9% NaCl.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING PANHEMATIN is supplied as a sterile, lyophilized black powder in single dose dispensing vials (NDC 55292-702-54) in a carton (NDC 55292-702-55). The vial stopper contains natural rubber latex. Store lyophilized powder at 20-25°C (68-77°F).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 9984267a-4d57-4444-9bb5-16bca7dea691
