Name: Hydroxyzine

introduction: INDICATIONS For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested. Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses, and in histamine-mediated pruritus. As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia, hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine (Demerol ® ) and barbiturates, so their use in pre-anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis. Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug. Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent. The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies. The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient.

dosage_text: DOSAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested: in adults, 50 mg to 100 mg q.i.d.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses; and over 6 years, 50 mg to 100 mg daily in divided doses. For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses, and in histamine-mediated pruritus: in adults, 25 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses; and over 6 years, 50 mg to 100 mg daily in divided doses. As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia: 50 mg to 100 mg in adults, and 0.6 mg/kg in children. When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration, subsequent doses may be administered orally. As with all medications, the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient’s response to therapy.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Hydroxyzine Pamoate Capsules, USP, for oral administration, are available as 25 mg (equivalent to 25 mg hydroxyzine hydrochloride) are light green/dark green capsules imprinted “E 613” and supplied as: NDC: 63629-8874-1 bottles of 500 Storage Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture. Dispense contents in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP, with a child-resistant closure, as required. KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504 WARNINGS Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Since many drugs are so excreted, hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 02616eee-a1a4-4afc-b84e-69fd28755138
