Name: Hydroxyurea

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydroxyurea capsules, USP is indicated for the treatment of: Resistant chronic myeloid leukemia. Locally advanced squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (excluding the lip) in combination with chemoradiation. Hydroxyurea capsules, USP is an antimetabolite indicated for the treatment of: • Resistant chronic myeloid leukemia. (1) • Locally advanced squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck, (excluding lip) in combination with concurrent chemoradiation. (1)

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Individualize treatment based on tumor type, disease state, response to treatment, patient risk factors, and current clinical practice standards. (2.1) Renal impairment: Reduce the dose of hydroxyurea by 50% in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min. ( 2.3 , 8.6, 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Hydroxyurea is used alone or in conjunction with other antitumor agents or radiation therapy to treat neoplastic diseases. Individualize treatment based on tumor type, disease state, response to treatment, patient risk factors, and current clinical practice standards. Base all dosage on the patient’s actual or ideal weight, whichever is less. Hydroxyurea is a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures [ see References (15) ]. Swallow hydroxyurea capsule whole. Do NOT open, break, or chew capsules because hydroxyurea is a cytotoxic drug. Prophylactic administration of folic acid is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Monitor blood counts at least once a week during hydroxyurea therapy. Severe anemia must be corrected before initiating therapy with hydroxyurea. 2.2 Dose Modifications for Toxicity Monitor for the following and reduce the dose or discontinue hydroxyurea accordingly: Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Cutaneous vasculitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] 2.3 Dose Modifications for Renal Impairment Reduce the dose of hydroxyurea capsules by 50% in patients with measured creatinine clearance of less than 60 mL/min or with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Hydroxyurea Capsules Initial Dose (mg/kg once daily) ≥60 15 <60 or ESRD On dialysis days, administer hydroxyurea capsules to patients following hemodialysis. 7.5 Close monitoring of hematologic parameters is advised in these patients. 2.1 Dosing Information Hydroxyurea is used alone or in conjunction with other antitumor agents or radiation therapy to treat neoplastic diseases. Individualize treatment based on tumor type, disease state, response to treatment, patient risk factors, and current clinical practice standards. Base all dosage on the patient’s actual or ideal weight, whichever is less. Hydroxyurea is a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures [ see References (15) ]. Swallow hydroxyurea capsule whole. Do NOT open, break, or chew capsules because hydroxyurea is a cytotoxic drug. Prophylactic administration of folic acid is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Monitor blood counts at least once a week during hydroxyurea therapy. Severe anemia must be corrected before initiating therapy with hydroxyurea. 2.2 Dose Modifications for Toxicity Monitor for the following and reduce the dose or discontinue hydroxyurea accordingly: Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Cutaneous vasculitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] 2.3 Dose Modifications for Renal Impairment Reduce the dose of hydroxyurea capsules by 50% in patients with measured creatinine clearance of less than 60 mL/min or with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Hydroxyurea Capsules Initial Dose (mg/kg once daily) ≥60 15 <60 or ESRD On dialysis days, administer hydroxyurea capsules to patients following hemodialysis. 7.5 Close monitoring of hematologic parameters is advised in these patients.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied Hydroxyurea capsules, USP is supplied as 500 mg capsules in HDPE bottles with heat induction Child Resistant Closures. Each bottle contains 100 capsules. The cap is opaque green, and the body is opaque light pink. The capsules are imprinted on both sections with “LP 164” in black ink (NDC 51407-909-01). 16.2 Storage Store at 20-25°C (68-77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C-30°C (59°F-86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Keep tightly closed. 16.3 Handling and Disposal Hydroxyurea capsules is a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures [see References (15) ]. To decrease the risk of contact, advise caregivers to wear disposable gloves when handling hydroxyurea capsules or bottles containing hydroxyurea capsules. Wash hands with soap and water before and after contact with the bottle or capsules when handling hydroxyurea capsules. Do not open hydroxyurea capsules. Avoid exposure to crushed or opened capsules. If contact with crushed or opened capsules occurs on the skin, wash affected area immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. If contact with crushed or opened capsules occurs on the eye(s), the affected area should be flushed thoroughly with water or isotonic eyewash designated for that purpose for at least 15 minutes. If the powder from the capsule is spilled, immediately wipe it up with a damp disposable towel and discard in a closed container, such as a plastic bag; as should the empty capsules. The spill areas should then be cleaned three times using a detergent solution followed by clean water. Keep the medication away from children and pets. Contact your doctor for instructions on how to dispose of outdated capsules.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1b42f2b4-3880-e7a9-e063-6294a90a5fd0
