Name: Hydroxyprogesterone

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection, USP is indicated in non-pregnant women: for the treatment of advanced adenocarcinoma of the uterine corpus (Stage III or IV); in the management of amenorrhea (primary and secondary) and abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology, such as submucous fibroids or uterine cancer; as a test for endogenous estrogen production and for the production of secretory endometrium and desquamation.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Suggested dosages are presented in the therapy guide. Because of the low viscosity of the vehicle, Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection, USP may be administered with a small gauge needle. Care should be taken to inject the preparation deeply into the upper outer quadrant of the gluteal muscle following the usual precautions for intramuscular injection. Since the 250 mg potency provides a high concentration in a small volume, particular care should be observed to administer the full dose. Note: Use of a wet needle or syringe may cause the solution to become cloudy; however, this does not affect the potency of the material. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Protect from light. Store vial in its box. Store upright. Discard any unused product within 5 weeks after first use. THERAPY GUIDE CYCLIC THERAPY SCHEDULE: (28-day cycle; repeated every 4 weeks); Day 1 of each cycle: 20 mg Estradiol Valerate Injection, USP 2 weeks after Day 1: 250 mg Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection, USP and 5 mg Estradiol Valerate Injection, USP 4 weeks after Day 1. This is Day 1 of next cycle SUGGESTED CYCLIC REGIMEN Indications Dosage Started Repeated Stopped Comments Amenorrhea (primary and secondary): Abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organicpathology, such as submucous fibroids or uterine cancer. 375 mg Any time - - Genital malignancy should be excluded before hormone therapy is started. Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is used as a “Medical D and C” to eliminate any proliferated endometrium from previous estrogenic action by conversion to secretory endometrium and desquamation. To determine onset of normal cyclic functions, patient should be observed for 2 or 3 cycles after cessation of therapy. Cyclic Therapy Schedule After 4 days of desquamation or, if there is no bleeding, 21 days after Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection, USP alone Every 4 weeks After 4 cycles Production of secretory endometrium and desquamation Patients not on estrogen therapy: Cyclic Therapy Schedule Any time Every 4 weeks When cyclic therapy is no longer required If estrogen deficiency has been prolonged, menstruation may not occur until estrogen has been given for several months. Patients currently on estrogen therapy: 375 mg Hydroxy progesterone Caproate Injection, USP Any time - - Cyclic Therapy Schedule After 4 days of desquamation or, if there is no bleeding, 21 days after Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection, USP alone Every 4 weeks When cyclic therapy is no longer required SUGGESTED NON-CYCLIC REGIMEN Indications Dosage Started Repeated Stopped Comments Adenocarcinoma of uterine corpus in advanced stage (Stage III or IV) 1,000 mg or more At once 1 or more times each week (1 to 7 g per week) When relapse occurs, or after 12 weeks with no objective response Should not be used in early stage (Stage I or II) in place of established anticancer therapy. May be used in advanced stage concomitantly with other anticancer therapy (surgery, α radiation, or chemotherapy, or combination of these). Treatment results reported to date have been better in histologically well-differentiated forms of endometrial adenocarcinoma. (The drug has not been adequately studied in non-endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterine corpus). Test for endogenous estrogen production ("Medical D and C") 250 mg Any time For confirmation, 4 weeks after 1 st injection After 2 nd injection Non-pregnant patient with responsive endometrium; bleeding 7 to14 days after injection indicates endogenous estrogen.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection, USP is available in vials providing hydroxyprogesterone caproate with a potency of 250 mg per mL. The product is formulated in castor oil and 46% benzyl benzoate and containing 2% (v/v) benzyl alcohol as a preservative. Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection, USP is a sterile, clear pale yellow to yellow color oily solution and is supplied as follows: 5 mL Multiple-Dose Vial Packaged Individually NDC 55150-311-01 5 mL Multiple-Dose Vials in a carton of 5 NDC 55150-311-05 Storage Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate Injection, USP should be stored at controlled room temperature 20° to 25° C (68° to 77° F). Storage at low temperatures may result in the separation of some crystalline material which redissolves readily on heating in boiling water. Protect from light. Store vial in its box. Store upright. Discard any unused product within 5 weeks after first use. The vial stopper is not made with natural rubber latex. Distributed by: AuroMedics Pharma LLC 279 Princeton-Hightstown Road E.Windsor, NJ 08520 Manufactured by: Eugia Pharma Specialities Limited Hyderabad – 500032 India Revised: June 2022 WARNINGS Thrombotic and Thromboembolic Events Discontinue the medication pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. Medication should be stopped if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions. Allergic reactions Hypersensitivity reaction to progestins have been reported. Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is contraindicated in women with a history of hypersensitivity to a progestin. Glucose tolerance Progestins may decrease glucose tolerance and the blood glucose concentration should be monitored in diabetic users.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 687bcf42-f437-42c7-8909-a91f621f55df
