Name: Hydromorphone

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories contain hydromorphone, an opioid agonist, and are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, reserve hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. • Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 ) • Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 ) • Usual adult dose of hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories is 1 suppository every 6 to 8 hours. ( 2.3 ) • Do not abruptly discontinue hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories in a physically-dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories are available in one strength: 3 mg. • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . • Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories and adjust the dosage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 )]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. 2.3 Dosing Initiating Treatment with Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Suppositories Initiate treatment with 1 hydromorphone hydrochloride suppository every 6 to 8 hours. Conversion from Other Opioids to Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Suppositories There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Conversion from Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Suppositories to Extended-Release Hydromorphone Hydrochloride The relative bioavailability of hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories compared to extended-release hydromorphone hydrochloride is unknown, so conversion to extended-release tablets must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Initiate treatment with one-fourth to one-half the usual hydromorphone hydrochloride starting dose depending on the degree of impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.5 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Initiate treatment with one-fourth to one-half the usual hydromorphone hydrochloride starting dose depending on the degree of impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.6 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. For chronic pain, doses should be administered around-the-clock. A supplemental dose of 5 to 15% of the total daily usage may be administered every two hours on an as-needed basis. 2.7 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Suppositories Do not abruptly discontinue hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid dependent patient taking hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on hydromorphone hydrochloride tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Hydromorphone Hydrochloride Suppositories are off-white suppositories. It is available in: Cartons of 6 suppositories – NDC 0574-7224-06 Store refrigerated between 2°- 8°C (36°- 46°F). Protect from light. Store hydromorphone hydrochloride suppositories securely and dispose of properly [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] .

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1bfbba46-1979-4797-a29e-d67718131686
