Name: Ifosfamide

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ifosfamide for Injection is indicated for use in adults in combination with certain other approved antineoplastic agents for third-line chemotherapy of germ cell testicular cancer. Ifosfamide for Injection is an alkylating drug indicated for use in adults in combination with certain other approved antineoplastic agents for third-line chemotherapy of germ cell testicular cancer. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer Ifosfamide for Injection with extensive hydration consisting of at least 2 liters of oral or intravenous fluid per day to reduce the incidence or severity of bladder toxicity. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) • Administer mesna with Ifosfamide for Injection to reduce the incidence or severity of hemorrhagic cystitis. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) • Administer Ifosfamide for Injection as a slow intravenous infusion (at least 30 minutes) at a dose of 1.2 grams per m 2 per day for 5 consecutive days. Repeat every 3 weeks or after recovery from hematologic toxicity. ( 2.2 ) • Individualize the dose and dosing schedule of Ifosfamide for Injection based on patient risk factors and adverse reactions. ( 2.2 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on preparation and administration. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer Ifosfamide for Injection with extensive hydration consisting of at least 2 liters of oral or intravenous fluid per day to reduce the incidence or severity of bladder toxicity. Administer Ifosfamide for Injection with mesna to reduce the incidence or severity of hemorrhagic cystitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of Ifosfamide for Injection is 1.2 grams per m2 per day administered as a slow intravenous infusion (lasting at least 30 minutes) for 5 consecutive days. Treatment is repeated every 3 weeks or after recovery from hematologic toxicity. Individualize the dose and dosing schedule of Ifosfamide for Injection based on patient risk factors and adverse reactions. 2.3 Preparation and Administration Ifosfamide for Injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures.1 Skin reactions associated with accidental exposure to Ifosfamide for Injection may occur. To minimize the risk of dermal exposure, always wear impervious gloves when handling vials and solutions containing Ifosfamide for Injection. If Ifosfamide for Injection solution contacts the skin or mucosa, immediately wash the skin thoroughly with soap and water or rinse the mucosa with copious amounts of water. Prepare Ifosfamide for Injection for intravenous use by adding Sterile Water for Injection, USP or Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (benzyl alcohol or parabens preserved) to the vial and shaking to dissolve. Before administration, the substance must be completely dissolved. Use the quantity of diluents shown in below to reconstitute the product: Table 1: Ifosfamide for Injection Quantities for Dilution and Final Concentrations Dosage Strength Quantity of Diluent Final Concentration 1 gram 20 mL 50 mg per mL 3 grams 60 mL 50 mg per mL Solutions of ifosfamide may be diluted further to achieve concentrations of 0.6 to 20 mg/mL in the following fluids: • 5% Dextrose Injection, USP • 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP • Lactated Ringer’s Injections, USP • Sterile Water for Injection, USP Because essentially identical stability results were obtained for Sterile Water admixtures as for the other admixtures (5% Dextrose Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, and Lactated Ringer’s Injection), the use of large volume parenteral glass bottles, VIAFLEX bags or PAB bags that contain intermediate concentrations or mixtures of excipients (e.g., 2.5% Dextrose Injection, 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection) is also acceptable. Refrigerate constituted or constituted and further diluted solutions of Ifosfamide for Injection and use within 24 hours. Benzyl-alcohol-containing solutions can reduce the stability of ifosfamide. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Ifosfamide for injection is available in single-dose vials as follows: NDC 10019-925-01 1-gram Single-Dose Vial NDC 10019-926-02 3-gram Single-Dose Vial Store at controlled room temperature 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). Protect from temperatures above 30°C (86°F).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 91e433a9-6800-43a6-ac13-a49a04a5aecd
