Name: Indomethacin

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indomethacin capsules are indicated for: Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis Moderate to severe osteoarthritis Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Acute gouty arthritis Indomethacin capsules are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis Moderate to severe osteoarthritis Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Acute gouty arthritis ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ) The dosage for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis is indomethacin capsules 25 mg two or three times a day. ( 2.2 ) The dosage for acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) is 75 to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. ( 2.3 ) The dosage for acute gouty arthritis is indomethacin capsules 50 mg three times a day. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of indomethacin capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use indomethacin capsules. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. After observing the response to initial therapy with indomethacin, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs. Adverse reactions generally appear to correlate with the dose of indomethacin. Therefore, every effort should be made to determine the lowest effective dosage for the individual patient. Dosage recommendations for active stages of the following: 2.2 Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis Indomethacin capsules 25 mg twice a day or three times a day. If this is well tolerated, increase the daily dosage by 25 mg or by 50 mg, if required by continuing symptoms, at weekly intervals until a satisfactory response is obtained or until a total daily dose of 150 to 200 mg is reached. Doses above this amount generally do not increase the effectiveness of the drug. In patients who have persistent night pain and/or morning stiffness, the giving of a large portion, up to a maximum of 100 mg, of the total daily dose at bedtime may be helpful in affording relief. The total daily dose should not exceed 200 mg. In acute flares of chronic rheumatoid arthritis, it may be necessary to increase the dosage by 25 mg or, if required, by 50 mg daily. If minor adverse effects develop as the dosage is increased, reduce the dosage rapidly to a tolerated dose and observe the patient closely. If severe adverse reactions occur, stop the drug. After the acute phase of the disease is under control, an attempt to reduce the daily dose should be made repeatedly until the patient is receiving the smallest effective dose or the drug is discontinued. Careful instructions to, and observations of, the individual patient are essential to the prevention of serious, irreversible, including fatal, adverse reactions. As advancing years appear to increase the possibility of adverse reactions, indomethacin capsules should be used with greater care in the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. 2.3 Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Indomethacin capsules 75 to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. The drug should be discontinued after the signs and symptoms of inflammation have been controlled for several days. The usual course of therapy is 7 to 14 days. 2.4 Acute Gouty Arthritis Indomethacin capsules 50 mg three times a day until pain is tolerable. The dose should then be rapidly reduced to complete cessation of the drug. Definite relief of pain has been reported within 2 to 4 hours. Tenderness and heat usually subside in 24 to 36 hours, and swelling gradually disappears in 3 to 5 days.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Indomethacin capsules, USP are available containing either 50 mg of indomethacin, USP. The 50 mg capsule is a size ‘1’ two piece opaque green hard gelatin capsule imprinted with ‘G302’ on the body and ‘G’ on the cap, filled with white to off-white granular powder. They are available as follows: Bottles of 20 capsules ‒ NDC 43063-929-20 Bottles of 30 capsules ‒ NDC 43063-929-30 Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 009097a5-2c1e-4f5d-8054-896cf896cb3d
