Name: Infliximab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE INFLECTRA is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker indicated for: Crohn's Disease ( 1.1 ): • reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in adult patients with moderately to severely active disease who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. • reducing the number of draining enterocutaneous and rectovaginal fistulas and maintaining fistula closure in adult patients with fistulizing disease. Pediatric Crohn's Disease ( 1.2 ): • reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active disease who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. Ulcerative Colitis ( 1.3 ): • reducing signs and symptoms, inducing and maintaining clinical remission and mucosal healing, and eliminating corticosteroid use in adult patients with moderately to severely active disease who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis ( 1.4 ): • reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active disease who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. Rheumatoid Arthritis ( 1.5 ) in combination with methotrexate: • reducing signs and symptoms, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with moderately to severely active disease. Ankylosing Spondylitis ( 1.6 ): • reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with active disease. Psoriatic Arthritis ( 1.7 ): • reducing signs and symptoms of active arthritis, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients. Plaque Psoriasis ( 1.8 ): • treatment of adult patients with chronic severe (i.e., extensive and/or disabling) plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy and when other systemic therapies are medically less appropriate. 1.1 Crohn's Disease INFLECTRA is indicated for: • reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease (CD) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. • reducing the number of draining enterocutaneous and rectovaginal fistulas and maintaining fistula closure in adult patients with fistulizing CD. 1.2 Pediatric Crohn's Disease INFLECTRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active CD who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 1.3 Ulcerative Colitis INFLECTRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inducing and maintaining clinical remission and mucosal healing, and eliminating corticosteroid use in adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 1.4 Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis INFLECTRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms and inducing and maintaining clinical remission in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with moderately to severely active UC who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 1.5 Rheumatoid Arthritis INFLECTRA, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 1.6 Ankylosing Spondylitis INFLECTRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (AS). 1.7 Psoriatic Arthritis INFLECTRA is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms of active arthritis, inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA). 1.8 Plaque Psoriasis INFLECTRA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic severe (i.e., extensive and/or disabling) plaque psoriasis (Ps) who are candidates for systemic therapy and when other systemic therapies are medically less appropriate. INFLECTRA should only be administered to patients who will be closely monitored and have regular follow-up visits with a physician [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions (5) ] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to treatment, ensure appropriate personnel and medication are available to treat reactions (e.g., hypersensitivity) that occur during infusion and shortly after infusion ( 2.11 ) INFLECTRA is administered by intravenous infusion for at least 2 hours with an in-line filter ( 2.11 ) Crohn's Disease ( 2.1 ) • 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. Some adult patients who initially respond to treatment may benefit from increasing the dose to 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks if they later lose their response. Pediatric Crohn's Disease (≥ 6 years old) ( 2.2 ) • 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. Ulcerative Colitis ( 2.3 ) • 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis (≥ 6 years old) ( 2.4 ) • 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. Rheumatoid Arthritis ( 2.5 ) • In conjunction with methotrexate, 3 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. Some patients may benefit from increasing the dose up to 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks or treating as often as every 4 weeks. Ankylosing Spondylitis ( 2.6 ) • 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 6 weeks. Psoriatic Arthritis ( 2.7 ) and Plaque Psoriasis ( 2.8 ) • 5 mg/kg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, then every 8 weeks. 2.1 Dosage in Adult Crohn's Disease The recommended dosage of INFLECTRA is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active CD or fistulizing CD. For adult patients who respond and then lose their response, consideration may be given to treatment with 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks. Patients who do not respond by Week 14 are unlikely to respond with continued dosing and consideration should be given to discontinue INFLECTRA in these patients. 2.2 Dosage in Pediatric Crohn's Disease The recommended dosage of INFLECTRA for pediatric patients 6 years and older with moderately to severely active CD is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 2.3 Dosage in Adult Ulcerative Colitis The recommended dosage of INFLECTRA is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active UC. 2.4 Dosage in Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis The recommended dosage of INFLECTRA for pediatric patients 6 years and older with moderately to severely active UC is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 2.5 Dosage in Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended dosage of INFLECTRA is 3 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 3 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of moderately to severely active RA. INFLECTRA should be given in combination with methotrexate. For patients who have an incomplete response, consideration may be given to adjusting the dosage up to 10 mg/kg every 8 weeks or treating as often as every 4 weeks bearing in mind that risk of serious infections is increased at higher doses per infusion or more frequent dosing [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 2.6 Dosage in Ankylosing Spondylitis The recommended dosage of INFLECTRA is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks thereafter for the treatment of active AS. 2.7 Dosage in Psoriatic Arthritis The recommended dosage of INFLECTRA is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of PsA. INFLECTRA can be used with or without methotrexate. 2.8 Dosage in Plaque Psoriasis The recommended dosage of INFLECTRA in adult patients is 5 mg/kg given as an intravenous induction regimen at 0, 2 and 6 weeks followed by a maintenance regimen of 5 mg/kg every 8 weeks thereafter for the treatment of chronic severe (i.e., extensive and/or disabling) Ps. 2.9 Assessment for Latent and Active Tuberculosis Prior to initiating INFLECTRA and periodically during therapy, patients should be evaluated for active tuberculosis and tested for latent infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.10 Administration Instructions Regarding Infusion Reactions Prior to treatment, ensure appropriate personnel and medication are available to treat reactions (e.g., hypersensitivity, other reactions) that occur during infusion and shortly after infusion. Prior to infusion with INFLECTRA, patient may be premedicated with histamine-1 receptor antagonists, histamine-2 receptor antagonists, acetaminophen, and/or corticosteroids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . For mild to moderate reactions during the infusion, consider slowing or stopping the infusion. Upon resolution of these reactions, may reinitiate at a lower infusion rate and/or with histamine-1 receptor antagonists, histamine-2 receptor antagonists, acetaminophen, and/or corticosteroids. Discontinue the infusion if the mild to moderate reactions reoccur. Discontinue the infusion if severe hypersensitivity reactions occur during the infusion. 2.11 Reconstitution, Dilution, and Administration Instructions INFLECTRA is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a healthcare provider. The supplied lyophilized powder must be reconstituted and diluted prior to administration. The infusion solution should be prepared and administered by a trained medical professional using aseptic technique by the following procedure: 1. Calculate the dose, total volume of reconstituted INFLECTRA solution required and the number of INFLECTRA vials needed. More than one vial may be needed for a full dose. 2. Reconstitute each 100 mg INFLECTRA vial with 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, to obtain a concentration of 10 mg/mL, using a syringe equipped with a 21-gauge or smaller needle as follows: • Remove the flip-top from the vial and wipe the top with an alcohol swab. • Insert the syringe needle into the vial through the center of the rubber stopper and direct the stream of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, to the glass wall of the vial. Gently swirl the solution by rotating the vial to dissolve the lyophilized powder, which has a cake-like appearance. Avoid prolonged or vigorous agitation. DO NOT SHAKE. Foaming of the solution on reconstitution is not unusual. • Allow the reconstituted solution to stand for 5 minutes. Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and discoloration. The reconstituted solution should be colorless to light yellow and opalescent, and the solution may develop a few translucent particles as infliximab-dyyb is a protein. Do not use if the lyophilized powder has not fully dissolved or if opaque particles, discoloration, or other foreign particles are present. Do not store unused reconstituted INFLECTRA solution. 3. Dilute the total volume of the reconstituted INFLECTRA solution to 250 mL For volumes greater than 250 mL, either use a larger infusion bag (e.g. 500 mL) or multiple 250 mL infusion bags to ensure that the concentration of the infusion solution does not exceed 4 mg/mL. with sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, (do not dilute with any other diluent) as follows: • Withdraw a volume from the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, 250 mL bottle or bag equal to the total volume of reconstituted INFLECTRA required for a dose. Slowly add the total volume of reconstituted INFLECTRA solution from the vial(s) to the 250 mL infusion bottle or bag. • Discard any unused portion of the reconstituted INFLECTRA solution remaining in the vial(s). • Gently invert the bag to mix the solution. The resulting infusion concentration should range between 0.4 mg/mL (minimum recommended concentration) and 4 mg/mL (maximum recommended concentration) of infliximab-dyyb. 4. The INFLECTRA infusion should begin within 3 hours of reconstitution and dilution. The infusion must be administered intravenously for at least 2 hours with an infusion set with an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low-protein-binding filter (pore size of 1.2 µm or less). 5. Given that the vials do not contain antibacterial preservatives, discard any unused portion of the infusion solution (do not store for reuse). No physical biochemical compatibility studies have been conducted to evaluate the co-administration of INFLECTRA with other agents. INFLECTRA should not be infused concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other agents.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied INFLECTRA (infliximab-dyyb) for injection is supplied as one single-dose vial individually packaged in a carton (NDC 0069-0809-01 100 mg vial). Each single-dose vial contains 100 mg of infliximab-dyyb as a sterile, preservative-free, white lyophilized powder for reconstitution and dilution (more than one vial may be needed for a full dose) [see Dosage and Administration (2.11) ]. Storage and Handling Store unopened INFLECTRA ® vials in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). If needed, unopened INFLECTRA vials may be stored at room temperature up to a maximum of 30°C (86°F) for a single period up to 6 months but not exceeding the original expiration date. The new expiration date must be written in the space provided on the carton. Once removed from the refrigerator, INFLECTRA cannot be returned to the refrigerator. Not made with natural rubber latex. For storage condition of the reconstituted and diluted product for administration, see Dosage and Administration (2.11) .

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 37eaca10-d812-48bc-8b8e-b836bfa9968f
