Name: Insulin glargine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BASAGLAR ® is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. BASAGLAR ® is a long-acting human insulin analog indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Not recommended for treating diabetic ketoacidosis. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use BASAGLAR is not recommended for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Individualize dosage based on metabolic needs, blood glucose monitoring, glycemic control, type of diabetes, prior insulin use. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) Administer subcutaneously once daily at any time of day, but at the same time every day. ( 2.2 ) Rotate injection sites into the abdominal area, thigh, or deltoid to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. ( 2.1 ) Closely monitor glucose when converting to BASAGLAR and during initial weeks thereafter. ( 2.2 ) Do not dilute or mix with any other insulin or solution. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Always check insulin labels before administration [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Visually inspect BASAGLAR prefilled pens for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Only use if the solution is clear and colorless with no visible particles. Administer BASAGLAR subcutaneously into the abdominal area, thigh, or deltoid, and rotate injection sites within the same region from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . During changes to a patient's insulin regimen, increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Use BASAGLAR with caution in patients with visual impairment that may rely on audible clicks to dial their dose. Do not dilute or mix BASAGLAR with any other insulin or solution. Do not administer intravenously or via an insulin pump. 2.2 General Dosing Instructions In patients with type 1 diabetes, BASAGLAR must be used concomitantly with short-acting insulin. Inject BASAGLAR subcutaneously once daily at any time of day but at the same time every day. Individualize and adjust the dosage of BASAGLAR based on the individual's metabolic needs, blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal. Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity, changes in meal patterns (i.e., macronutrient content or timing of food intake), during acute illness, or changes in renal or hepatic function. Dosage adjustments should only be made under medical supervision with appropriate glucose monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . The BASAGLAR prefilled pens each dials in 1 unit increments and delivers a maximum dose of 80 units per injection. 2.3 Initiation of BASAGLAR Therapy The recommended starting dose of BASAGLAR in patients with type 1 diabetes should be approximately one-third of the total daily insulin requirements. Short- or rapid-acting, pre-meal insulin should be used to satisfy the remainder of the daily insulin requirements. The recommended starting dose of BASAGLAR in patients with type 2 diabetes is 0.2 units/kg or up to 10 units once daily. 2.4 Changing to BASAGLAR from Other Insulin Therapies If changing patients from another insulin glargine product, 100 units/mL, to BASAGLAR, the dose of BASAGLAR should be the same as the other insulin glargine product, 100 units/mL. If changing patients from a once-daily insulin glargine product, 300 units/mL, to once-daily BASAGLAR, the recommended initial BASAGLAR dosage is 80% of the insulin glargine product, 300 units/mL [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . If changing from a treatment regimen with an intermediate- or long-acting insulin to a regimen with BASAGLAR, a change in the dose of the basal insulin may be required. If changing patients from twice-daily NPH insulin to once-daily BASAGLAR, the recommended initial BASAGLAR dosage is 80% of the total daily NPH dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied BASAGLAR (insulin glargine) injection is a clear, colorless solution, 100 units/mL (U-100), available as: a Tempo Pen contains a component that allows for data connectivity when used with a compatible transmitter. BASAGLAR Total Volume NDC Number Package Size BASAGLAR single-patient-use KwikPen 3 mL 0002-7715-59 5 pens BASAGLAR single-patient-use Tempo Pen a 3 mL 0002-8214-05 5 pens The BASAGLAR KwikPen and Tempo Pen dial in 1 unit increments. Needles are not included. This device is recommended for use with Becton, Dickinson & Company's insulin pen needles which are sold separately. 16.2 Storage and Handling Dispense in the original sealed carton with the enclosed Instructions for Use. Protect BASAGLAR from heat and light. Do not freeze BASAGLAR. In-use BASAGLAR prefilled pens must be used within 28 days or be discarded, even if they still contain BASAGLAR. Storage conditions are summarized in the following table: Not In-Use (Unopened) Room Temperature (up to 86°F [30°C]) Not In-Use (Unopened) Refrigerated (36°F to 46°F [2°C to 8°C]) In-Use (Opened) Room Temperature, (up to 86°F [30°C]) 3 mL single-patient-use BASAGLAR KwikPen 28 days Until expiration date 28 days, Do not refrigerate. 3 mL single-patient-use BASAGAR Tempo Pen 28 days Until expiration date 28 days, Do not refrigerate. 16.1 How Supplied BASAGLAR (insulin glargine) injection is a clear, colorless solution, 100 units/mL (U-100), available as: a Tempo Pen contains a component that allows for data connectivity when used with a compatible transmitter. BASAGLAR Total Volume NDC Number Package Size BASAGLAR single-patient-use KwikPen 3 mL 0002-7715-59 5 pens BASAGLAR single-patient-use Tempo Pen a 3 mL 0002-8214-05 5 pens The BASAGLAR KwikPen and Tempo Pen dial in 1 unit increments. Needles are not included. This device is recommended for use with Becton, Dickinson & Company's insulin pen needles which are sold separately.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0ad21db3-2b1c-4ed9-a687-bdd6a74d0aae
