Name: Insulin lispro

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ADMELOG is indicated to improve glycemic control in adult and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus. ADMELOG is a rapid-acting human insulin analog indicated to improve glycemic control in adult and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See Full Prescribing Information for important preparation and administration instructions. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. ( 2.2 ) Subcutaneous injection ( 2.2 ): Administer ADMELOG by subcutaneous injection into the abdominal wall, thigh, upper arm, or buttocks within 15 minutes before a meal or immediately after a meal. Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. Continuous subcutaneous infusion (Insulin Pump) ( 2.2 ): Refer to the insulin infusion pump user manual to see if ADMELOG can be used. Use in accordance with the insulin pump instructions for use. Administer ADMELOG by continuous subcutaneous infusion using an insulin pump in a region recommended in the instructions from the pump manufacturer. Rotate infusion sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. Do not mix with other insulins or diluents in the pump. Intravenous Infusion: Administer ADMELOG by intravenous infusion ONLY after dilution and under medical supervision. ( 2.2 ) The dosage of ADMELOG must be individualized based on the route of administration and the patient's metabolic needs, blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Preparation and Administration Instructions Always check insulin labels before administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Inspect ADMELOG visually before use. It should appear clear and colorless. Do not use ADMELOG if particulate matter or coloration is seen. Use ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen with caution in patients with visual impairment who may rely on audible clicks to dial their dose. Do NOT mix ADMELOG with other insulins when administering using a continuous subcutaneous infusion pump. 2.2 Preparation and Administration Instructions for the Approved Routes of Administration Subcutaneous Injection Administer the dose of ADMELOG subcutaneously within fifteen minutes before a meal or immediately after a meal into the abdominal wall, thigh, upper arm, or buttocks. Rotate injection site within the same region from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ] . During changes to a patient's insulin regimen, increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . ADMELOG administered by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens with intermediate or long-acting insulin. The ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen dials in 1-unit increments. Prior to subcutaneous use, ADMELOG may be diluted with sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Dilute one-part ADMELOG to one-part 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to yield a concentration one-half that of ADMELOG (equivalent to U-50). If diluted ADMELOG is not used immediately, refrigerate at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) for no more than 24 hours or store at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for 4 hours. Discard the unused diluted ADEMLOG after 24 hours if refrigerated or after 4 hours if stored at room temperature. Continuous Subcutaneous Infusion (Insulin Pump) Refer to the continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pump user manual to see if ADMELOG can be used with the insulin pump. Use ADMELOG in accordance with the insulin pump system's instructions for use. Administer ADMELOG by continuous subcutaneous infusion in a region recommended in the instructions from the pump manufacturer. Rotate infusion sites within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Train patients using continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion therapy to administer insulin by injection and have alternate insulin therapy available in case of insulin pump failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. During changes to a patient's insulin regimen, increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Change ADMELOG in the pump reservoir at least every 7 days or according to the pump user manual, whichever is shorter. Change the infusion sets and the infusion set insertion site according to the manufacturer's user manual. Do NOT dilute or mix ADMELOG when administering by continuous subcutaneous infusion. Do NOT expose ADMELOG in the pump reservoir to temperatures greater than 98.6°F (37°C). Intravenous Administration Administer ADMELOG intravenously ONLY under medical supervision [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.6) ] . Dilute ADMELOG to concentrations from 0.1 unit/mL to 1 unit/mL using 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16.2) ] . Closely monitor of blood glucose and potassium levels to avoid hypoglycemia and hypokalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.6) ]. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations Individualize and adjust the dosage of ADMELOG based on the route of administration, the patient's metabolic needs, blood glucose monitoring results, and glycemic control goal. Dosage modifications may be needed with changes in physical activity, changes in meal patterns (i.e., macronutrient content or timing of food intake), changes in renal or hepatic function, or during acute illness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6 , 8.7) ] . When switching from another insulin lispro product to ADMELOG, the dose of ADMELOG should be the same as the other insulin lispro product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. When switching from other insulins to ADMELOG, the ADMELOG dosage may need to be adjusted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.4 Dosage Adjustment for Drug Interactions Dosage modification may be needed when ADMELOG is coadministered with certain drugs [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Do NOT mix ADMELOG with any other insulin.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied ADMELOG (insulin lispro) injection 100 units/mL (U-100) is available as a clear and colorless solution in: Dosage Unit Package Size NDC # 10 mL multiple-dose vials Carton of 1 0024-5924-10 3 mL multiple-dose vials Carton of 1 0024-5926-05 3 mL single-patient-use SoloStar prefilled pen Carton of 5 0024-5925-05 Each prefilled SoloStar pen is for use by a single patient. The ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen dials in 1-unit increments. 16.2 Storage and Handling Dispense in the original sealed carton with the enclosed Instructions for Use. Store ADMELOG according to the table below. Do not freeze and do not use ADMELOG if it has been frozen. Protect from direct heat and light. In-use (opened) ADMELOG vials and ADMELOG SoloStar pens must be used within 28 days or be discarded, even if they still contain ADMELOG. ADMELOG Not In-Use (Unopened) Room Temperature (Up to 86°F [30°C]) Not In-Use (Unopened) Refrigerated (36°F–46°F [2°C–8°C]) In-Use (Opened) Room Temperature (Up to 86°F [30°C]) 10 mL multiple-dose vial 28 days Until expiration date 28 days refrigerated/room temperature 3 mL multiple-dose vial 28 days Until expiration date 28 days refrigerated/room temperature 3 mL single-patient-use SoloStar prefilled pen 28 days Until expiration date 28 days Do not refrigerate. Use in an External Insulin Pump Change the ADMELOG in the pump reservoir at least every 7 days or according to the pump user manual, whichever is shorter, or after exposure to temperatures that exceed 98.6°F (37°C). Diluted ADMELOG for Subcutaneous Injection Diluted ADMELOG may remain in patient use for up to 24 hours when stored in a refrigerator (36°F–46°F [2°C–8°C]) or for up to 4 hours when stored at room temperature (86°F [30°C]). Do not dilute ADMELOG used in an external insulin pump. Admixture for Intravenous Administration Infusion bags prepared with ADMELOG are stable when stored in a refrigerator (36°F–46°F [2°C–8°C]) for 24 hours or may be used at room temperature for up to 4 hours [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] .

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0691def8-4a7b-4de3-866f-a280989f47f1
