Name: Isosorbide dinitrate

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isosorbide dinitrate tablets are indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease. The onset of action of immediate-release oral isosorbide dinitrate is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute anginal episode.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As noted under " CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ," multiple-dose studies with isosorbide dinitrate and other nitrates have shown that maintenance of continuous 24-hour plasma levels results in refractory tolerance. Every dosing regimen for isosorbide dinitrate tablets must provide a daily dose-free interval to minimize the development of this tolerance. With immediate-release isosorbide dinitrate, it appears that one daily dose-free interval must be at least 14 hours long. As also noted under " CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ," the effects of the second and later doses have been smaller and shorter-lasting than the effects of the first. Large controlled studies with other nitrates suggest that no dosing regimen with isosorbide dinitrate tablets should be expected to provide more than about 12 hours of continuous anti-anginal efficacy per day. As with all titratable drugs, it is important to administer the minimum dose which produces the desired clinical effect. The usual starting dose of isosorbide dinitrate is 5 mg to 20 mg, two or three times daily. For maintenance therapy, 10 mg to 40 mg, two or three times daily is recommended. Some patients may require higher doses. A daily dose-free interval of at least 14 hours is advisable to minimize tolerance. The optimal interval will vary with the individual patient, dose and regimen.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Isosorbide dinitrate tablets, USP are available as follows: 5 mg oral, white, round, bisected tablets, debossed with "PAR 020" on one side and plain on the other side. NDC 50268-447-15 (10 tablets per card, 5 cards per carton). 10 mg oral, white, round, bisected tablets, debossed with "PAR 021" on one side and plain on the other side. NDC 50268-448-15 (10 tablets per card, 5 cards per carton). 20 mg oral, green, round, bisected tablets, debossed with "PAR 022" on one side and plain on the other side. NDC 50268-449-15 (10 tablets per card, 5 cards per carton). 30 mg oral, blue, round, bisected tablets, debossed with "PAR 009" on one side and plain on the other side. Dispensed in Unit Dose Package. For Institutional Use Only. Store at room temperature, approximately 25°C (77°F). Protect from light. Keep bottles tightly closed. Dispense in a light-resistant, tight container. WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of isosorbide dinitrate by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension. The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied. Appropriate supportive care has not been studied, but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose, with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion. The benefits of immediate-release oral isosorbide dinitrate in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established. If one elects to use isosorbide dinitrate in these conditions, careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia. Because the effects of oral isosorbide dinitrate are so difficult to terminate rapidly, this formulation is not recommended in these settings.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0e5842f2-74f6-1f02-01bc-07578bd3b393
