Name: Ketamine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KETALAR (ketamine hydrochloride) injection is indicated: as the sole anesthetic agent for diagnostic and surgical procedures that do not require skeletal muscle relaxation. for the induction of anesthesia prior to the administration of other general anesthetic agents. as a supplement to other anesthetic agents. KETALAR is a general anesthetic indicated: as the sole anesthetic agent for diagnostic and surgical procedures that do not require skeletal muscle relaxation ( 1 ) for the induction of anesthesia prior to the administration of other general anesthetic agents ( 1 ) as a supplement to other anesthetic agents ( 1 ).

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See Full Prescribing Information for important dosage and administration instructions. ( 2 ) Induction of anesthesia: -- Intravenous route : Initially, 1 to 4.5 mg/kg administered slowly (over a period of 60 seconds). Alternatively, administer a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg at a rate of 0.5 mg/kg/min. ( 2.2 ) -- Intramuscular route : Initially, 6.5 to 13 mg/kg. ( 2.2 ) Maintenance of anesthesia: Increments of one-half to the full induction dose may be repeated as needed ( 2.2 ). Adjust the dose according to the patient's anesthetic needs and whether an additional anesthetic agent is employed. ( 2.2 ) Supplement to other anesthetic agents : The regimen of a reduced dose of KETALAR supplemented with diazepam can be used to produce balanced anesthesia by combination with other agents. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information KETALAR should be administered by or under the direction of physicians experienced in the administration of general anesthetics, maintenance of a patent airway, and oxygenation and ventilation. Continuously monitor vital signs in patients receiving KETALAR. Emergency airway equipment must be immediately available. Do not administer the 100 mg/mL concentration of KETALAR intravenously without proper dilution [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Must be used immediately after dilution. While some degree of airway protection may be afforded due to active laryngeal-pharyngeal reflexes, vomiting and aspiration may occur with KETALAR. KETALAR is not recommended for use in patients who have not followed nil per os guidelines. Due to the potential for salivation during KETALAR administration, administer an antisialagogue prior to induction of anesthesia. In individuals with a history of chronic ketamine use for off-label indications, there have been case reports of genitourinary pain that may be related to the ketamine treatment, not the underlying condition [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . Consider cessation of ketamine if genitourinary pain continues in the setting of other genitourinary symptoms. 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration The KETALAR dosage must be individualized and titrated to the desired clinical effect. If a longer duration of effect is desired, additional increments can be administered intravenously or intramuscularly to maintain anesthesia. However, a higher total dose will result in a longer time to complete recovery. Induction of Anesthesia Intravenous Route: The initial dose of KETALAR administered intravenously may range from 1 mg/kg to 4.5 mg/kg. The average amount required to produce 5 to 10 minutes of surgical anesthesia within 30 seconds following injection is 2 mg/kg. Administer KETALAR slowly (i.e., over a period of 60 seconds). Rapid administration may result in respiratory depression and enhanced vasopressor response. The induction dose may be administered as an intravenous infusion at a rate of 0.5 mg/kg/min. Intramuscular Route : The initial dose of KETALAR administered intramuscularly may range from 6.5 to 13 mg/kg. A dose of 9 to 13 mg/kg usually produces surgical anesthesia within 3 to 4 minutes following injection, with the anesthetic effect usually lasting 12 to 25 minutes. Administer a benzodiazepine, if clinically indicated, for the prevention of neuropsychological manifestations during emergence from anesthesia. Maintenance of Anesthesia Adjust the maintenance dose according to the patient's anesthetic needs and whether an additional anesthetic agent is administered. Repeat increments of one-half to the full induction dose as needed for maintenance of anesthesia. Purposeless and tonic-clonic movements of extremities may occur during the course of ketamine anesthesia. These movements do not imply a light plane and are not indicative of the need for additional doses of the anesthetic. KETALAR given by slow microdrip infusion technique at a dose of 0.1 to 0.5 mg/minute will maintain general anesthesia in adult patients induced with KETALAR. Augment KETALAR with an intravenous benzodiazepine for the prevention of neuropsychological manifestations during emergence. Supplement to Other Anesthetic Agents KETALAR can be administered to supplement other general and local anesthetic agents. Continuously monitor patients for changes in respiratory and hemodynamic parameters. A reduced dose of KETALAR can be used to produce balanced anesthesia when used in combination with other anesthetic agents. 2.3 Preparation of Dilution KETALAR is a clear, colorless sterile solution. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Discard if product is discolored or contains particulate matter. Induction of Anesthesia : Do not intravenously inject the 100 mg/mL concentration of KETALAR without proper dilution. Dilute KETALAR with an equal volume of either Sterile Water for injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (Normal Saline), or 5% Dextrose in Water. Use immediately after dilution. Maintenance of Anesthesia : To prepare a dilute solution containing 1 mg of ketamine per mL, aseptically transfer 10 mL from a 50 mg per mL vial or 5 mL from a 100 mg per mL vial to 500 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (Normal Saline) and mix well. The resultant solution will contain 1 mg of ketamine per mL. Use immediately after dilution. When fluid restriction is required, KETALAR can be added to a 250 mL infusion as described above to provide a KETALAR concentration of 2 mg/mL. KETALAR 10 mg/mL vials are not recommended for dilution.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied KETALAR injection is a clear, colorless solution supplied as the hydrochloride salt in concentrations equivalent to ketamine base, as follows: Unit of sale Strength NDC 42023-113-10 Unit of 10 200 mg in 20 mL multiple- dose vial (10 mg/mL) 10 mg ketamine base (equivalent to 11.53 mg ketamine hydrochloride) NDC 42023-114-10 Unit of 10 500 mg in 10 mL multiple- dose vial (50 mg/mL) 50 mg ketamine base (equivalent to 57.67 mg ketamine hydrochloride) NDC 42023-115-10 Unit of 10 500 mg in 5 mL multiple- dose vial (100 mg/mL) 100 mg ketamine base (equivalent to 115.33 mg ketamine hydrochloride) Storage and Handling KETALAR injection should be stored at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature] . Protect from light.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 14e8f864-8b8a-4e7e-8439-e510d3107063
