Name: Ketoprofen

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketoprofen extended-release capsules before deciding to use ketoprofen extended-release capsules. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). Ketoprofen extended-release capsules are indicated for the management of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. Ketoprofen extended-release capsules are not recommended for treatment of acute pain because of its extended-release characteristics (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics ).

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketoprofen extended-release capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use ketoprofen extended-release capsules. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). After observing the response to initial therapy with ketoprofen extended-release capsules, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs. Concomitant use of ketoprofen extended-release capsules is not recommended. If minor side effects appear, they may disappear at a lower dose which may still have an adequate therapeutic effect. If well tolerated but not optimally effective, the dosage may be increased. Individual patients may show a better response to 300 mg of ketoprofen capsules daily as compared to 200 mg, although in well-controlled clinical trials patients on 300 mg did not show greater mean effectiveness. They did, however, show an increased frequency of upper- and lower-GI distress and headaches. It is of interest that women also had an increased frequency of these adverse effects compared to men. When treating patients with 300 mg/day, the physician should observe sufficient increased clinical benefit to offset potential increased risk. In patients with mildly impaired renal function, the maximum recommended total daily dose of ketoprofen extended-release capsules is 150 mg. In patients with a more severe renal impairment (GFR less than 25 mL/min/1.73 m 2 or end-stage renal impairment), the maximum total daily dose of ketoprofen extended-release capsules should not exceed 100 mg. In elderly patients, renal function may be reduced with apparently normal serum creatinine and/or BUN levels. Therefore, it is recommended that the initial dosage of ketoprofen extended-release capsules should be reduced for patients over 75 years of age (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). It is recommended that for patients with impaired liver function and serum albumin concentration less than 3.5 g/dL, the maximum initial total daily dose of ketoprofen extended-release capsules should be 100 mg. All patients with metabolic impairment, particularly those with both hypoalbuminemia and reduced renal function, may have increased levels of free (biologically active) ketoprofen and should be closely monitored. The dosage may be increased to the range recommended for the general population, if necessary, only after good individual tolerance has been ascertained. Because hypoalbuminemia and reduced renal function both increase the fraction of free drug (biologically active form), patients who have both conditions may be at greater risk of adverse effects. Therefore, it is recommended that such patients also be started on lower doses of ketoprofen extended-release capsules and closely monitored. Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis The recommended starting dose of ketoprofen in otherwise healthy patients is for ketoprofen extended-release capsules 200 mg administered once a day. Smaller doses of ketoprofen extended-release capsules should be utilized initially in small individuals, or in debilitated or elderly patients. The recommended maximum daily dose of ketoprofen is 200 mg/day for ketoprofen extended-release capsules. Dosages higher than 200 mg/day of ketoprofen extended-release capsules are not recommended because they have not been studied. Concomitant use of ketoprofen extended-release capsules is not recommended. Relatively smaller people may need smaller doses. As with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the predominant adverse effects of ketoprofen are gastrointestinal. To attempt to minimize these effects, physicians may wish to prescribe that ketoprofen extended-release capsules be taken with antacids, food, or milk. Although food delays the absorption of both formulations (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) in most of the clinical trials ketoprofen was taken with food or milk. Physicians may want to make specific recommendations to patients about when they should take ketoprofen extended-release capsules in relation to food and/or what patients should do if they experience minor GI symptoms associated with either formulation. Management of Pain and Dysmenorrhea Ketoprofen extended-release capsules are not recommended for use in treating acute pain because of its extended-release characteristics.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Ketoprofen Extended-Release Capsules, USP are available containing 200 mg of ketoprofen, USP. The 200 mg capsules are hard-shell gelatin capsules with a blue green opaque cap and an iron gray opaque body filled with white to off-white beads. The capsules are axially printed with MYLAN over 8200 in black ink on both the cap and body. They are available as follows: NDC 0378-8200-01 bottles of 100 capsules Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Protect from direct light and excessive heat and humidity. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP using a child-resistant closure. PHARMACIST : Dispense a Medication Guide with each prescription. WARNINGS Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as ketoprofen, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS ). Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10–14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next 4 years of follow-up. Avoid the use of ketoprofen extended-release capsules in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If ketoprofen extended-release capsules are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including ketoprofen extended-release capsules, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. NSAIDs, including ketoprofen extended-release capsules, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of ketoprofen may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] (see Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of ketoprofen extended-release capsules in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If ketoprofen extended-release capsules are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Gastrointestinal Effects Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including ketoprofen extended-release capsules, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients, who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy, is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2-4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. NSAIDs should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. Renal Effects Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greater risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of ketoprofen extended-release capsules in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with ketoprofen extended-release capsules is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If ketoprofen extended-release capsules therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient’s renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to ketoprofen extended-release capsules. Ketoprofen extended-release capsules should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS: General: Preexisting Asthma ). Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ketoprofen, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be life-threatening. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of ketoprofen extended-release capsules at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Ketoprofen extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as ketoprofen extended-release capsules. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue ketoprofen extended-release capsules and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including ketoprofen extended-release capsules, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including ketoprofen extended-release capsules, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including ketoprofen extended-release capsules, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit ketoprofen extended-release capsules use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if ketoprofen extended-release capsules treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue ketoprofen extended-release capsules if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 198a4140-f4c0-4478-9157-ee1d68d0bb96
