Name: Lacosamide

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide injection is indicated for: Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.1) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.2) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide injection is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1.2 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Lacosamide is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older): Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily (2.1) Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily (2.1) Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily (2.1) Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years : The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily (2.1) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week (2.1) Injection: for intravenous use only when oral administration is temporarily not feasible; the recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered two or three times daily over 15 to 60 minutes; obtaining ECG before initiation is recommended in certain patients (2.7, 5.3) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment (2.4, 12.3) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended (2.5, 12.3) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. In pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age, the recommended dosing regimen is dependent upon body weight. Dosage should be increased based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week. Titration increments should not exceed those shown in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 years of age and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older* Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy**: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Oral and intravenous dosages are the same unless specified. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Lacosamide Injection Dosage L acosamide injection may be used when oral administration is temporarily not feasible [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. L acosamide injection can be administered intravenously to adult and pediatric patients weighing 11 kg or more with the same dosing regimens described for oral dosing. For pediatric patients weighing less than 6 kg, L acosamide injection may be initiated with a dose of 0.66 mg/kg three times daily (see Table 1). The clinical study experience of intravenous L acosamide is limited to 5 days of consecutive treatment. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Alternate Initial Dosage Information to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe For monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 17 years of age and older, an alternate initial dosing regimen for week 1 (e.g., including a loading dose and/or a higher initial dosage) may be administered in patients for whom achieving the recommended maintenance dosage in a shorter timeframe is clinically indicated (see Table 2). The alternate initial dosage regimen should be continued for one week. Lacosamide injection may then be titrated based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week, if needed. The loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the possibility of increased incidence of adverse reactions, including central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3), Adverse Reactions (6.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Titration increments should not exceed those shown in Table 2. Table 2: Alternate Initial Dosing Regimen to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe if Clinically Indicated* Age and Body Weight Alternate Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Single loading dose: 200 mg 12 hours later initiate: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) at weekly intervals, if needed Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Oral and intravenous dosages are the same unless specified. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic (AED) to Lacosamide Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial-Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to lacosamide monotherapy, withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of lacosamide is achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days. A gradual withdrawal of the concomitant AED over at least 6 weeks is recommended. 2.4 Dosage Information for Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, no dosage adjustment is necessary. For patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance (CL CR ) less than 30 mL/min as estimated by the Cockcroft-Gault equation for adults; CL CR less than 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 as estimated by the Schwartz equation for pediatric patients] or end-stage renal disease, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. In all patients with renal impairment, dose initiation and titration should be based on clinical response and tolerability. Hemodialysis Lacosamide is effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis. Following a 4-hour hemodialysis treatment, dosage supplementation of up to 50% should be considered. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.5 Dosage Information for Patients with Hepatic Impairment For patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. The dose initiation and titration should be based on clinical response and tolerability in patients with hepatic impairment. Lacosamide use is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.7 Preparation and Administration Information for Lacosamide Injection Preparation Lacosamide injection can be administered intravenously without further dilution or may be mixed with diluents listed below. The diluted solution should not be stored for more than 4 hours at room temperature. Diluents: Sodium Chloride Injection 0.9% (w/v) Dextrose Injection 5% (w/v) Lactated Ringer's Injection Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Product with particulate matter or discoloration should not be used. Lacosamide injection is for single-dose only. Any unused portion of lacosamide injection should be discarded. Administration The recommended infusion duration is 30 to 60 minutes; however, infusions as rapid as 15 minutes can be administered in adults if required [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Infusion durations less than 30 minutes are generally not recommended in pediatric patients [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Intravenous infusion of lacosamide may cause bradycardia, AV blocks, and ventricular tachyarrhythmia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state maintenance dose is recommended in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions or on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . Storage and Stability The diluted solution should not be stored for more than 4 hours at room temperature. Any unused portion of lacosamide injection should be discarded. 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide When discontinuing lacosamide, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied Lacosamide Injection, USP Lacosamide injection, USP is a clear, colorless solution supplied as below: NDC Number Concentration Volume Package 70069- 471 -10 200 mg/20 mL (10 mg/mL) 20 mL Single Dose Vial Pack of 10 Single Dose Vials 16.2 Storage and Handling Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature] Do not freeze lacosamide injection. Discard unused portion.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 00203a7b-e774-45f7-ac6b-48db6d32a48a
