Name: Latanoprost

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Latanoprost ophthalmic solution is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Latanoprost ophthalmic solution is a prostaglandin F 2α analogue indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. (1)

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is one drop in the affected eye(s) once daily in the evening. If one dose is missed, treatment should continue with the next dose as normal. The dosage of latanoprost ophthalmic solution should not exceed once daily; the combined use of two or more prostaglandins, or prostaglandin analogs including latanoprost ophthalmic solution is not recommended. It has been shown that administration of these prostaglandin drug products more than once daily may decrease the IOP lowering effect or cause paradoxical elevations in IOP. Reduction of the IOP starts approximately 3 to 4 hours after administration and the maximum effect is reached after 8 to 12 hours. Latanoprost ophthalmic solution may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower IOP. In vitro studies have shown that precipitation occurs when eye drops containing thimerosal are mixed with latanoprost ophthalmic solution. If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used, the drugs should be administered at least five (5) minutes apart. Contact lenses should be removed prior to the administration of latanoprost ophthalmic solution, and may be reinserted 15 minutes after administration. One drop in the affected eye(s) once daily in the evening. (2)

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Latanoprost ophthalmic solution is a clear, isotonic, buffered, preserved colorless solution of latanoprost 50 mcg/mL (0.005%). It is supplied as a 2.5 mL solution in a 5 mL clear low density polyethylene bottle with a clear polyethylene dropper tip, a turquoise high density polyethylene screw cap, and a tamper-evident ring between the bottle and cap. 2.5 mL fill, 50 mcg/mL (0.005%): Package of 1 bottle: NDC 68083-609-01 Storage: Protect from light. Store unopened bottle(s) under refrigeration at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). During shipment to the patient, the bottle may be maintained at temperatures up to 40°C (104°F) for a period not exceeding 8 days. Once a bottle is opened for use, it may be stored at room temperature up to 25°C (77°F) for 6 weeks.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 113abcc6-6e5c-4a57-ad6a-d69508ee990e
