Name: Letrozole

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Letrozole tablet is an aromatase inhibitor indicated for: Adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive early breast cancer ( 1.1 ) Extended adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with early breast cancer who have received prior standard adjuvant tamoxifen therapy ( 1.2 ) First and second-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive or unknown advanced breast cancer ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Adjuvant Treatment of Early Breast Cancer Letrozole tablets are indicated for the adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive early breast cancer. 1.2 Extended Adjuvant Treatment of Early Breast Cancer Letrozole tablets are indicated for the extended adjuvant treatment of early breast cancer in postmenopausal women, who have received 5 years of adjuvant tamoxifen therapy. The effectiveness of letrozole tablets in extended adjuvant treatment of early breast cancer is based on an analysis of disease-free survival in patients treated with letrozole tablets for a median of 60 months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 , 14.3 )] . 1.3 First and Second-Line Treatment of Advanced Breast Cancer Letrozole tablets are indicated for first-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive or unknown, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Letrozole tablets are also indicated for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following antiestrogen therapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 , 14.5 )].

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Letrozole tablets are taken orally without regard to meals ( 2 ): Recommended dose: 2.5.mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Patients with cirrhosis or severe hepatic impairment: 2.5 mg every other day ( 2.5 , 5.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dose The recommended dose of letrozole tablet is one 2.5 mg tablet administered once a day, without regard to meals. 2.2 Use in Adjuvant Treatment of Early Breast Cancer In the adjuvant setting, the optimal duration of treatment with letrozole is unknown. In both the adjuvant study and the post approval adjuvant study, median treatment duration was 5 years. Treatment should be discontinued at relapse [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 2.3 Use in Extended Adjuvant Treatment of Early Breast Cancer In the extended adjuvant setting, the optimal treatment duration with letrozole tablet is not known. The planned duration of treatment in the study was 5 years. In the final updated analysis, conducted at a median follow-up of 62 months, the median treatment duration for letrozole tablets was 60 months. Seventy-one (71%) percent of patients were treated for at least 3 years and 58% of patients completed at least 4.5 years of extended adjuvant treatment. The treatment should be discontinued at tumor relapse [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 2.4 Use in First and Second-Line Treatment of Advanced Breast Cancer In patients with advanced disease, treatment with letrozole tablets should continue until tumor progression is evident [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 , 14.5 )] . 2.5 Use in Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, although letrozole tablets blood concentrations were modestly increased in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment due to cirrhosis. The dose of letrozole tablets in patients with cirrhosis and severe hepatic dysfunction should be reduced by 50% [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. The recommended dose of letrozole tablets for such patients is 2.5 mg administered every other day. The effect of hepatic impairment on letrozole tablets exposure in noncirrhotic cancer patients with elevated bilirubin levels has not been determined. 2.6 Use in Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is required for patients with renal impairment if creatinine clearance is greater than or equal to 10 mL/min [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Product: 50090-3474 NDC: 50090-3474-0 90 TABLET, FILM COATED in a BOTTLE

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 065cc89f-3a3f-4d78-b9f6-1c32a77ceb1c
