Name: Levorphanol

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ], reserve Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): • Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see WARNINGS ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ]. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing regulations (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ]. Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. Initial Dosage Use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 mg every 6 to 8 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia, provided the patient is assessed for signs of hypoventilation and excessive sedation. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. If necessary, the dose may be increased to up to 3 mg every 6 to 8 hours, after adequate evaluation of the patient’s response. Higher doses may be appropriate in opioid tolerant patients. Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain; age, weight and physical status of the patient; the patient’s underlying diseases; use of concomitant medications; and other factors [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY; Individualization of Dosage , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. Conversion from Other Opioids to Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. The dosage of levorphanol in patients with cancer or with other conditions for which chronic opioid therapy is indicated must be individualized. Levorphanol is 4 to 8 times as potent as morphine and has a longer half-life. Because there is incomplete cross-tolerance among opioids, when converting a patient from morphine to levorphanol, the total daily dose of levorphanol should begin at approximately 1/15 to 1/12 of the total daily dose of oral morphine that such patients had previously required and then the dose should be adjusted to the patient’s clinical response. If a patient is to be placed on fixed-schedule dosing (round-the-clock) with this drug, care should be taken to allow adequate time after each dose change (approximately 72 hours) for the patient to reach a new steady-state before a subsequent dose adjustment to avoid excessive sedation due to drug accumulation. Note: As with all controlled substances, abuse by healthcare personnel is possible and the drug should be handled accordingly. Geriatric Patients Elderly patients (aged 65 years or older) may have increased sensitivity to levorphanol. In general, use caution when selecting a dosage for an elderly patient, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. The initial dose of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets should be reduced by 50% or more in the infirm elderly patient. [see PRECAUTIONS ]. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate the dose of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and other adverse reactions, as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If a patient is to be placed on fixed-schedule dosing (round-the-clock) with this drug, care should be taken to allow adequate time after each dose change (approximately 72 hours) for the patient to reach a new steady state before a subsequent dose adjustment to avoid excessive sedation due to drug accumulation. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS ]. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. Levorphanol has a long half-life. The duration of pain relief after a single dose cannot always be predicted from pharmacokinetic principles, and the inter-dose interval may have to be adjusted to suit the patient’s individual pharmacodynamic response. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS; Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ].

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets USP, 2 mg White to off white, scored tablets (Identified V2003) NDC: 72989-417-10 Bottles of 100 tablets. Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Dispense in an amber airtight container as defined in the USP. Store Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets securely and dispose of properly [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. Distributed by: Acertis Pharmaceuticals, LLC Raleigh, NC 27601 Rev. 01/2025 WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets contains levorphanol, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets, and reassess all patients receiving Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. Contact local state professional licensing board or state- controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Overestimating the Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of levorphanol. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ]. The initial dose of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets should be reduced by 50% or more when the drug is given to patients with any condition affecting respiratory reserve or in conjunction with other drugs affecting the respiratory center. Subsequent doses should then be individually titrated according to the patient’s response. Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-related hypoxemia. Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose-dependent fashion. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ]. Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of other CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse ; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ; OVERDOSAGE ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid, and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic, and titrate based on clinical response. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients, Pregnancy ]. Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS-compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: • Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Healthcare Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. • Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG . • Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. • Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com . The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint . Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia and Allodynia Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia (OIH) occurs when an opioid analgesic paradoxically causes an increase in pain, or an increase in sensitivity to pain. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE; Dependence ]. Symptoms of OIH include (but may not be limited to) increased levels of pain upon opioid dosage increase, decreased levels of pain upon opioid dosage decrease, or pain from ordinarily non-painful stimuli (allodynia). These symptoms may suggest OIH only if there is no evidence of underlying disease progression, opioid tolerance, opioid withdrawal, or addictive behavior. Cases of OIH have been reported, both with short-term and longer-term use of opioid analgesics. Though the mechanism of OIH is not fully understood, multiple biochemical pathways have been implicated. Medical literature suggests a strong biologic plausibility between opioid analgesics and OIH and allodynia. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS ]. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patient The use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease : Patients treated with Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of levorphanol [see WARNINGS ]. Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients : Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets and when Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS ]. Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than 1 month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. Cardiovascular Effects The use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets in acute myocardial infarction or in cardiac patients with myocardial dysfunction or coronary insufficiency should be limited because the effects of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets on the work of the heart are unknown. Severe Hypotension Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Regularly evaluate these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. In patients with circulatory shock Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets with circulatory shock. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The levorphanol in Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets has been shown to cause moderate to marked rises in pressure in the common bile duct when given in analgesic doses. It is not recommended for use in biliary surgery. Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase. Regularly evaluate patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The levorphanol in Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets and know how they will react to the medication [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. Use in Liver Disease Levorphanol Tartrate Tablets should be administered with caution to patients with extensive liver disease who may be vulnerable to excessive sedation due to increased pharmacodynamic sensitivity or impaired metabolism of the drug.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 113a713f-830b-481c-bfa6-d44e3ac27f80
