Name: Linezolid

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZYVOX is an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia ( 1.1 ); Community-acquired pneumonia ( 1.2 ); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis ( 1.3 ); Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections ( 1.4 ); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.6 ): • ZYVOX is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. • The safety and efficacy of ZYVOX formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ZYVOX formulations and other antibacterial drugs, ZYVOX should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.2 Community-acquired Pneumonia ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.3 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis, caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . ZYVOX has not been studied in the treatment of decubitus ulcers [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.4 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) or Streptococcus pyogenes [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.5 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.6 Limitations of Use • ZYVOX is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. It is critical that specific Gram-negative therapy be initiated immediately if a concomitant Gram-negative pathogen is documented or suspected [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. • The safety and efficacy of ZYVOX formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.7 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ZYVOX and other antibacterial drugs, ZYVOX should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients (Birth through 11 years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 years and Older) Duration (days) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5–11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for ZYVOX formulations for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for ZYVOX Dosage, Route and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Infection Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage (1) ] Pediatric Patients Neonates less than 7 days : Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. These neonates should be initiated with a dosing regimen of 10 mg/kg every 12 hours. Consideration may be given to the use of 10 mg/kg every 8 hours regimen in neonates with a sub-optimal clinical response. All neonatal patients should receive 10 mg/kg every 8 hours by 7 days of life [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral Oral dosing using either ZYVOX Tablets or ZYVOX for Oral Suspension [ see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5–11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 No dose adjustment is necessary when switching from intravenous to oral administration. 2.2 Intravenous Administration ZYVOX I.V. Injection is supplied in single-dose, ready-to-use infusion bags. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. Check for minute leaks by firmly squeezing the bag. If leaks are detected, discard the solution, as sterility may be impaired . Keep the infusion bags in the overwrap until ready to use. Store at room temperature. Protect from freezing. ZYVOX I.V. Injection may exhibit a yellow color that can intensify over time without adversely affecting potency. ZYVOX I.V. Injection should be administered by intravenous infusion over a period of 30 to 120 minutes. Do not use this intravenous infusion bag in series connections . Additives should not be introduced into this solution. If ZYVOX I.V. Injection is to be given concomitantly with another drug, each drug should be given separately in accordance with the recommended dosage and route of administration for each product. Discard unused portion. If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several drugs, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of ZYVOX I.V. Injection with an infusion solution compatible with ZYVOX I.V. Injection and with any other drug(s) administered via this common line. 2.3 Compatibilities Compatible intravenous solutions include 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, and Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP. 2.4 Incompatibilities Physical incompatibilities resulted when ZYVOX I.V. Injection was combined with the following drugs during simulated Y-site administration: amphotericin B, chlorpromazine HCl, diazepam, pentamidine isothionate, erythromycin lactobionate, phenytoin sodium, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Additionally, chemical incompatibility resulted when ZYVOX I.V. Injection was combined with ceftriaxone sodium.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING ZYVOX I.V. Injection is available in single-dose, ready-to-use flexible plastic infusion bags in a foil laminate overwrap. The infusion bags and ports are not made with natural rubber latex. The infusion bags are available in the following package sizes: 600 mg/300 mL (2 mg/mL) linezolid × 10 NDC 0009-4992-02 Store at 25°C (77°F). Protect from light. It is recommended that the infusion bags be kept in the overwrap until ready to use. Protect infusion bags from freezing.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 122faa9e-c71a-4597-9552-5fb330b7d8b9
