Name: Liraglutide

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Liraglutide injection is indicated: as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus Limitations of Use: Liraglutide injection contains liraglutide. Coadministration with other liraglutide-containing products is not recommended. Liraglutide injection is a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist indicated: as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1 ). Limitations of Use : Coadministration with other liraglutide-containing products is not recommended.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients: Initiate at 0.6 mg injected subcutaneously once daily for one week then increase to 1.2 mg daily. If additional glycemic control is required, increase the dose to 1.8 mg daily after one week of treatment with the 1.2 mg daily dose ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients: Initiate at 0.6 mg injected subcutaneously once daily for at least one week. If additional glycemic control is required increase the dose to 1.2 mg daily and if additional glycemic control is still required, increase the dose to 1.8 mg daily after at least one week of treatment with the 1.2 mg daily dose ( 2.1 ). Inspect visually prior to each injection. Only use if solution is clear, colorless, and contains no particles ( 2.3 ). Inject liraglutide injection subcutaneously once-daily at any time of day, independently of meals, in the abdomen, thigh or upper arm ( 2.3 ). When using liraglutide injection with insulin, administer as separate injections. Never mix. ( 2.3 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosage Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage of liraglutide injection is 0.6 mg injected subcutaneously once daily for one week. The 0.6 mg once daily dosage is intended to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] during initial titration and is not effective for glycemic control in adults. After one week at the 0.6 mg once daily dosage, increase the dosage to 1.2 mg injected subcutaneously once daily. If additional glycemic control is required, increase the dosage to the maximum recommended dosage of 1.8 mg injected subcutaneously once daily after at least one week of treatment with the 1.2 mg once daily dosage. Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years and Older The recommended starting dosage of liraglutide injection is 0.6 mg injected subcutaneously once daily. If additional glycemic control is required, increase the dosage in 0.6 mg increments after at least one week on the current dosage, to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . The maximum recommended dosage is 1.8 mg injected subcutaneously once daily. 2.2 Recommendations Regarding Missed Dose Instruct patients who miss a dose of liraglutide injection to resume the once -daily dosage regimen as prescribed with the next scheduled dose. Do not administer an extra dose or increase the dose to make up for the missed dose. If more than 3 days have elapsed since the last liraglutide injection dose, reinitiate liraglutide injection at 0.6 mg once daily to reduce the risk of gastrointestinal adverse reactions associated with reinitiation of treatment. Upon reinitiation, liraglutide injection should be titrated at the discretion of the healthcare provider. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Inspect visually prior to each injection. Only use if solution is clear, colorless, and contains no particles. Inject liraglutide injection subcutaneously once daily at any time of day, independently of meals. Inject liraglutide injection subcutaneously in the abdomen, thigh or upper arm. No dosage adjustment is needed if changing the injection site and/or timing. Rotate injection sites within the same region in order to reduce the risk of cutaneous amyloidosis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . When using liraglutide injection with insulin, administer as separate injections. Never mix. It is acceptable to inject liraglutide injection and insulin in the same body region but the injections should not be adjacent to each other.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied Liraglutide Injection: 18 mg/3 mL (6 mg/mL) clear colorless solution in a pre-filled, single-patient-use pen that delivers doses of 0.6 mg, 1.2 mg, or 1.8 mg is available in the following package sizes: 2 x Liraglutide Injection Pen NDC 70748-346-02 3 x Liraglutide Injection Pen NDC 70748-346-03 16.2 Recommended Storage Prior to first use, liraglutide injection should be stored in a refrigerator between 36ºF to 46ºF (2ºC to 8ºC). Do not store in the freezer or directly adjacent to the refrigerator cooling element. Do not freeze liraglutide injection and do not use liraglutide injection if it has been frozen. After first use of the liraglutide injection pen, the pen can be stored for 30 days at controlled room temperature (59°F to 86°F; 15°C to 30°C) or in a refrigerator (36°F to 46°F; 2°C to 8°C). Keep the pen cap on when not in use. Protect liraglutide injection from excessive heat and sunlight. Always remove and safely discard the needle after each injection and store the liraglutide injection pen without an injection needle attached. This will reduce the potential for contamination, infection, and leakage while also ensuring dosing accuracy. Always use a new needle for each injection to prevent contamination. 16.1 How Supplied Liraglutide Injection: 18 mg/3 mL (6 mg/mL) clear colorless solution in a pre-filled, single-patient-use pen that delivers doses of 0.6 mg, 1.2 mg, or 1.8 mg is available in the following package sizes: 2 x Liraglutide Injection Pen NDC 70748-346-02 3 x Liraglutide Injection Pen NDC 70748-346-03

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0450d8a2-a88e-4849-9788-ed4f5246f223
