Name: Loteprednol

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Loteprednol etabonate is indicated for the treatment of steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva, cornea and anterior segment of the globe such as allergic conjunctivitis, acne rosacea, superficial punctate keratitis, herpes zoster keratitis, iritis, cyclitis, selected infective conjunctivitides, when the inherent hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation. Loteprednol etabonate is less effective than prednisolone acetate 1% in two 28-day controlled clinical studies in acute anterior uveitis, where 72% of patients treated with loteprednol etabonate experienced resolution of anterior chamber cells, compared to 87% of patients treated with prednisolone acetate 1%. The incidence of patients with clinically significant increases in IOP (≥10 mmHg) was 1% with loteprednol etabonate and 6% with prednisolone acetate 1%. Loteprednol etabonate should not be used in patients who require a more potent corticosteroid for this indication. Loteprednol etabonate is also indicated for the treatment of post-operative inflammation following ocular surgery.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SHAKE VIGOROUSLY BEFORE USING. Steroid Responsive Disease Treatment: Apply one to two drops of loteprednol etabonate into the conjunctival sac of the affected eye four times daily. During the initial treatment within the first week, the dosing may be increased, up to 1 drop every hour, if necessary. Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely. If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days, the patient should be re-evaluated (See PRECAUTIONS ). Post-Operative Inflammation: Apply one to two drops of loteprednol etabonate into the conjunctival sac of the operated eye four times daily beginning 24 hours after surgery and continuing throughout the first 2 weeks of the post-operative period.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Loteprednol Etabonate Ophthalmic Suspension, 0.5% is supplied in a plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip and a pink cap in the following sizes: 5 mL - NDC 72485-665-05 10 mL - NDC 72485-665-10 15 mL - NDC 72485-665-15 DO NOT USE IF NECKBAND IMPRINTED WITH "SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION' IS NOT INTACT. Storage: Store upright between 15°–25°C (59°–77°F). DO NOT FREEZE. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. Rx Only Distributed by: Armas Pharmaceuticals, inc. Freehold, NJ 07728 USA Manufactured by: Ophtapharm AG Rithofstrasse 1, Hettlingen, 8442, Switzerland (CHE) for Sentiss Made in Switzerland Rev. 08/23 WARNINGS Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve, defects in visual acuity and fields of vision, and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation. Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma. Prolonged use of corticosteroids may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections. In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera, perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids. In acute purulent conditions of the eye, steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection. Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye (including herpes simplex). Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution. The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 08a091a8-748f-acc4-e063-6394a90af4bc
