Name: Lubiprostone

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lubiprostone is a chloride channel activator indicated for the treatment of: chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC) in adults. ( 1.1 ) opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain, including patients with chronic pain related to prior cancer or its treatment who do not require frequent (e.g., weekly) opioid dosage escalation. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: Effectiveness of lubiprostone in the treatment of OIC in patients taking diphenylheptane opioids (e.g., methadone) has not been established. ( 1.2 , 7.1 ) irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in women ≥ 18 years old. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Chronic Idiopathic Constipation in Adults Lubiprostone is indicated for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC) in adults. 1.2 Opioid-Induced Constipation in Adult Patients with Chronic Non-Cancer Pain Lubiprostone is indicated for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain, including patients with chronic pain related to prior cancer or its treatment who do not require frequent (e.g., weekly) opioid dosage escalation. Limitations of Use: Effectiveness of lubiprostone in the treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients taking diphenylheptane opioids (e.g., methadone) has not been established. [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] 1.3 Irritable Bowel Syndrome with Constipation Lubiprostone is indicated for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in women at least 18 years old.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage ( 2.1 ) CIC and OIC: 24 mcg twice daily. IBS-C: 8 mcg twice daily. See full prescribing information for dosage adjustment by indication and degree of hepatic impairment. Administration Instructions ( 2.2 ) Swallow capsules whole and do not break apart or chew, Take capsules with food and water, Assess periodically the need for continuous therapy. 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended oral dosage of lubiprostone by indication and adjustments for patients with moderate (Child Pugh Class B) and severe (Child Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Recommended Dosage Regimen CIC and OIC IBS-C Recommended Adult Dosage Regimen 24 mcg twice daily 8 mcg twice daily Dosage Adjustment for Hepatic Impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] Moderate Impairment (Child-Pugh Class B) : 16 mcg twice daily If the dose is tolerated and an adequate response has not been obtained after an appropriate interval, doses can then be escalated to full dosing with appropriate monitoring of patient response. Moderate Impairment (Child-Pugh Class B) : No adjustment necessary Severe Impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) : 8 mcg twice daily Severe Impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) : 8 mcg once daily 2.2 Administration Instructions Take lubiprostone orally with food and water. Swallow capsules whole and do not break apart or chew. Physicians and patients should periodically assess the need for continued therapy.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Lubiprostone is available as an oval, soft gelatin capsule containing 8 mcg or 24 mcg of lubiprostone with "SPI" printed on one side. Lubiprostone is available as follows: 8 mcg pink capsule Bottles of 60 (NDC 43598-163-60) 24 mcg orange capsule Bottles of 60 (NDC 43598-168-60) Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F). Protect from light and extreme temperatures.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 006b8b6c-f0eb-4246-87da-67582984b0e4
