Name: Mefenamic acid

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of mefenamic acid capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use mefenamic acid capsules. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Mefenamic acid capsules are indicated: For relief of mild to moderate pain in patients ≥14 years of age, when therapy will not exceed one week (7 days). For treatment of primary dysmenorrhea.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of mefenamic acid and other treatment options before deciding to use mefenamic acid. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see Warnings ; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). After observing the response to initial therapy with mefenamic acid, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. For the relief of acute pain in adults and adolescents ≥14 years of age, the recommended dose is 500 mg as an initial dose followed by 250 mg every 6 hours as needed, usually not to exceed one week. For the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea, the recommended dose is 500 mg as an initial dose followed by 250 mg every 6 hours, given orally, starting with the onset of bleeding and associated symptoms. Clinical studies indicate that effective treatment can be initiated with the start of menses and should not be necessary for more than 2 to 3 days.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Mefenamic acid capsules USP, 250 mg are available as size '1' capsules having ivory cap and ivory body imprinted with "LU" on cap and "R31" on body in black ink, containing white to off white granular powder. They are supplied as follows: Bottles of 30 Capsules NDC 80425-0423-01 Bottles of 60 Capsules NDC 80425-0423-02 Bottles of 90 Capsules NDC 80425-0423-03 Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP. Storage: Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Manufactured for: Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Baltimore, Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by: Lupin Limited Goa 403 722 INDIA Revised: June 2021 ID#: 267984 Distributed by: Advanced Rx of Tennessee, LLC WARNINGS Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as mefenamic acid, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see Warnings ; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG (see Contraindications ). Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of mefenamic acid in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If mefenamic acid is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including mefenamic acid, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy, concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue mefenamic acid until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding (see Precautions ; Drug Interactions ). Hepatotoxicity Elevations of ALT or AST (three or more times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) have been reported in approximately 1% of NSAID-treated patients in clinical trials. In addition, rare, sometimes fatal, cases of severe hepatic injury, including fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis, and hepatic failure have been reported. Elevations of ALT or AST (less than three times ULN) may occur in up to 15% of patients treated with NSAIDs including mefenamic acid. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and "flu-like" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue mefenamic acid immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. Hypertension NSAIDs, including mefenamic acid, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazides diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs (see Precautions ; Drug Interactions ). Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of mefenamic acid may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) (see Precautions ; Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of mefenamic acid in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If mefenamic acid is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of mefenamic acid in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of mefenamic acid may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with pre-existing renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating mefenamic acid. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of mefenamic acid (see Precautions ; Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of mefenamic acid in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If mefenamic acid is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. Anaphylactic Reactions Mefenamic acid has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to mefenamic acid and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma ( see Contraindications , Warnings ; Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). Seek emergency help if anaphylactic reaction occurs. Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, mefenamic acid is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity (see Contraindications ). When mefenamic acid is used in patients with pre-existing asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including mefenamic acid, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions and to discontinue the use of mefenamic acid at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Mefenamic acid is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see Contraindications ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as mefenamic acid. Some of these events have been fatal or lifethreatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue mefenamic acid and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including mefenamic acid, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including mefenamic acid, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including mefenamic acid, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancymay cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit mefenamic acid use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if mefenamic acid treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue mefenamic acid if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [ see Precautions ; Pregnancy ]. Hematological Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with mefenamic acid has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including mefenamic acid, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders or concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding (see Precautions ; Drug Interactions ).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1e927779-411a-b5f5-e063-6394a90aae93
