Name: Mefloquine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Treatment of Acute Malaria Infections Mefloquine Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate acute malaria caused by mefloquine-susceptible strains of P. falciparum (both chloroquine-susceptible and resistant strains) or by Plasmodium vivax. There are insufficient clinical data to document the effect of mefloquine in malaria caused by P. ovale or P. malariae. Note: Patients with acute P. vivax malaria, treated with mefloquine, are at high risk of relapse because mefloquine does not eliminate exoerythrocytic (hepatic phase) parasites. To avoid relapse, after initial treatment of the acute infection with mefloquine, patients should subsequently be treated with an 8-aminoquinoline derivative (e.g., primaquine). Prevention of Malaria Mefloquine Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of P. falciparum and P. vivax malaria infections, including prophylaxis of chloroquine-resistant strains of P. falciparum.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Malaria Treatment in Adults Treatment of mild to moderate malaria in adults caused by mefloquine-susceptible strains of P. falciparum or by P. vivax: Dosage: Five tablets (1250 mg) mefloquine hydrochloride to be given as a single oral dose. The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with at least 8 oz (240 mL) of water. If a full-treatment course with mefloquine does not lead to improvement within 48 to 72 hours, mefloquine should not be used for retreatment. An alternative therapy should be used. Similarly, if previous prophylaxis with mefloquine failed, mefloquine should not be used for curative treatment (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Note: Patients with acute P. vivax malaria, treated with mefloquine, are at high risk of relapse because mefloquine does not eliminate exoerythrocytic (hepatic phase) parasites. To avoid relapse after initial treatment of the acute infection with mefloquine, patients should subsequently be treated with an 8-aminoquinoline derivative (e.g., primaquine). Malaria Prophylaxis in Adults Dosage: One 250 mg mefloquine hydrochloride tablet once weekly. Prophylactic drug administration should begin 1 week before arrival in an endemic area. Subsequent weekly doses should be taken regularly, always on the same day of each week, preferably after the main meal. To reduce the risk of malaria after leaving an endemic area, prophylaxis must be continued for 4 additional weeks to ensure suppressive blood levels of the drug when merozoites emerge from the liver. Tablets should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with at least 8 oz (240 mL) of water. In certain cases, e.g., when a traveler is taking other medication, it may be desirable to start prophylaxis 2 to 3 weeks prior to departure, in order to ensure that the combination of drugs is well tolerated (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). When prophylaxis with mefloquine fails, physicians should carefully evaluate which antimalarial to use for therapy. Malaria Treatment in Pediatric Patients Treatment of mild to moderate malaria in pediatric patients caused by mefloquine-susceptible strains of P. falciparum: Dosage: 20 to 25 mg/kg body weight. Splitting the total therapeutic dose into 2 doses taken 6 to 8 hours apart may reduce the occurrence or severity of adverse effects. The pediatric dose should not exceed the adult dose. Experience with mefloquine in pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg is limited. The drug should not be taken on an empty stomach and should be administered with ample water. The tablets may be crushed and suspended in a small amount of water, milk or other beverage for administration to small children and other persons unable to swallow them whole. If a full-treatment course with mefloquine does not lead to improvement within 48 to 72 hours, mefloquine should not be used for retreatment. An alternative therapy should be used. Similarly, if previous prophylaxis with mefloquine has failed, mefloquine should not be used for curative treatment. In pediatric patients, the administration of mefloquine for the treatment of malaria has been associated with early vomiting. In some cases, early vomiting has been cited as a possible cause of treatment failure (see PRECAUTIONS ). If a significant loss of drug product is observed or suspected because of vomiting, a second full dose of mefloquine should be administered to patients who vomit less than 30 minutes after receiving the drug. If vomiting occurs 30 to 60 minutes after a dose, an additional half-dose should be given. If vomiting recurs, the patient should be monitored closely and alternative malaria treatment considered if improvement is not observed within a reasonable period of time. The safety and effectiveness of mefloquine to treat malaria in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established. Malaria Prophylaxis in Pediatric Patients The recommended prophylactic dose of mefloquine is approximately 5 mg/kg body weight once weekly. One 250 mg mefloquine hydrochloride tablet should be taken once weekly in pediatric patients weighing over 45 kg. In pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg, the weekly dose decreases in proportion to body weight: 30 to 45 kg: 3/4 tablet 20 to 30 kg: 1/2 tablet Experience with mefloquine in pediatric patients weighing less than 20 kg is limited.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Mefloquine Hydrochloride Tablets USP, 250 mg are available as white, oval-shaped, flat-faced, beveled-edge, scored tablets, debossed with “stylized b” 171 on the scored side and plain on the other side, packaged in unit-dose cartons of 25 tablets (NDC 0555-0171-78). Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. WARNINGS In case of life-threatening, serious or overwhelming malaria infections due to P. falciparum, patients should be treated with an intravenous antimalarial drug. Following completion of intravenous treatment, mefloquine may be given to complete the course of therapy. QTc Interval Prolongation and Drug Interactions Halofantrine should not be administered with mefloquine or within 15 weeks of the last dose of mefloquine due to the risk of a potentially fatal prolongation of the QTc interval (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Elimination ). Ketoconazole should not be administered with mefloquine or within 15 weeks of the last dose of mefloquine due to the risk of a potentially fatal prolongation of the QTc interval. Ketoconazole increases plasma concentrations and elimination half-life of mefloquine following coadministration (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Elimination and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Concomitant administration of mefloquine and quinine or quinidine may produce electrocardiographic abnormalities. Psychiatric and Neurologic Adverse Reactions Mefloquine may cause neuropsychiatric adverse reactions in adults and children. Neuropsychiatric symptoms can be difficult to identify in children. Therefore, vigilance is required to monitor for the occurrence of these symptoms, especially in nonverbal children. Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Psychiatric symptoms ranging from anxiety, paranoia, and depression to hallucinations and psychotic behavior can occur with mefloquine use. Symptoms may occur early in the course of mefloquine use. In some cases, these symptoms have been reported to continue for months or years after mefloquine has been stopped. Cases of suicidal ideation and suicide have been reported. Mefloquine should not be prescribed for prophylaxis in patients with active depression, generalized anxiety disorder, psychosis, or schizophrenia or other major psychiatric disorders. Mefloquine should be used with caution in patients with a previous history of depression. During prophylactic use, the occurrence of psychiatric symptoms such as acute anxiety, depression, restlessness or confusion suggest a risk for more serious psychiatric disturbances or neurologic adverse reactions. In these cases, the drug should be discontinued and an alternative medication should be substituted. Neurologic Adverse Reactions Neurologic symptoms such as dizziness or vertigo, tinnitus, and loss of balance have been reported. These adverse reactions may occur early in the course of mefloquine use and in some cases have been reported to continue for months or years after mefloquine has been stopped. Dizziness or vertigo, tinnitus, and loss of balance have been reported to be permanent in some cases. During prophylactic use, if neurologic symptoms occur, the drug should be discontinued and an alternative medication should be substituted. Caution should be exercised with regard to activities requiring alertness and fine motor coordination, such as driving, piloting aircraft, operating machinery, and deep-sea diving, while symptoms persist. Mefloquine may increase the risk of convulsions in patients with epilepsy. The drug should therefore be prescribed only for curative treatment in such patients and only if there are compelling medical reasons for its use (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Concomitant administration of mefloquine and quinine or chloroquine may increase the risk of convulsions. Ocular Effects Eye disorders, including but not limited to optic neuropathy and retinal disorders, have been reported during treatment with mefloquine. Any patient presenting with visual symptoms should be referred to the treating physician and an ophthalmologist as certain conditions (such as retinal disorders or optic neuropathy) may require stopping treatment with mefloquine (see PRECAUTIONS , ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY ).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 09716a24-d7da-42b2-af29-c03a1b6670bd
