Name: Megestrol

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Megestrol acetate oral suspension, USP is indicated for the treatment of anorexia, cachexia, or an unexplained, significant weight loss in patients with a diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended adult initial dosage of megestrol acetate oral suspension, USP is 800 mg/day (20 mL/day). Shake container well before using. In clinical trials evaluating different dose schedules, daily doses of 400 and 800 mg/day were found to be clinically effective.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Megestrol acetate oral suspension, USP is available as a milky white, lemon-lime flavored oral suspension containing 40 mg of micronized megestrol acetate per mL. NDC 17856-0060-01 10ML NDC 17856-0060-02 20ML STORAGE: Store the oral suspension between 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [See USP]. Dispense in a tight container. Protect from heat. SPECIAL HANDLING: Health Hazard Data: There is no threshold limit value established by OSHA, NIOSH, or ACGIH. Exposure or "overdose" at levels approaching recommended dosing levels could result in side effects described above (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Women at risk of pregnancy should avoid such exposure. Distributed by: ATLANTIC BIOLOGICALS CORP. MIAMI, FL 33179 WARNINGS Megestrol acetate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. For animal data on fetal effects, (see PRECAUTIONS: Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility: Impairment of Fertility ). There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking (receiving) this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant. Megestrol acetate is not intended for prophylactic use to avoid weight loss. (See also PRECAUTIONS: Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, and Impairment of Fertility section.) The glucocorticoid activity of megestrol acetate oral suspension has not been fully evaluated. Clinical cases of new onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes mellitus, and overt Cushing's Syndrome have been reported in association with the chronic use of megestrol acetate. In addition, clinical cases of adrenal insufficiency have been observed in patients receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate therapy in the stressed and non-stressed state. Furthermore, adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) stimulation testing has revealedthe frequent occurrence of asymptomatic pituitary-adrenal suppression in patients treated with chronic megestrol acetate therapy. Therefore, the possibility of adrenal insufficiency should be considered in any patient receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate therapy who presents with symptoms and/or signs suggestive of hypoadrenalism (e.g., hypotension, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or weakness) in either the stressed or non-stressed state. Laboratory evaluation for adrenal insufficiency and consideration of replacement or stress doses of a rapidly acting glucocorticoid are strongly recommended in such patients. Failure to recognize inhibition of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis may result in death. Finally, in patients who are receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate therapy, consideration should be given to the use of empiric therapy with stress doses of a rapidly acting glucocorticoid in conditions of stress or serious intercurrent illness (e.g., surgery, infection).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 01119031-9943-4afb-8b45-cb71682f0482
