Name: Meperidine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution are indicated for the management of acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets or Oral Solution should not be used for the treatment of chronic pain. Use of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets or Oral Solution for an extended period of time may increase the risk of toxicity (e.g. seizures) from the accumulation of the meperidine metabolite, normeperidine. Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution are opioid agonists indicated for the management of pain, severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use ( 1 ): Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution should not be used for the treatment of chronic pain. Use of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution for an extended period of time may increase the risk of toxicity (e.g., seizures) from the accumulation of the meperidine metabolite, normeperidine.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Periodically reassess patients receiving Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets or Oral Solution to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse . ( 2.5 ) • Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.1 , 5 ) • Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. ( 2.1 ) • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) • Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) • Adult Patients : Initiate treatment in adults with 50 mg to 150 mg orally, every 3 to 4 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia ( 2.3 ). Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution. • Pediatric Patients : Initiate treatment in pediatric patients with 1.1 mg/kg to 1.8 mg/kg orally, up to the adult dose, every 3 to 4 hours as needed, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia ( 2.3 ). Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution. • Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution in a physically dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.6 , 5.17 ) • Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. (2.2, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Meperidine Hydrochloride Oral Solution Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Meperidine Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and with other meperidine solutions of different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure the proper dose is communicated and dispensed. When writing prescriptions, include both the total dose in mg and the total dose in volume. Instruct patients and caregivers on how to accurately measure and take or administer the correct dose of Meperidine Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Strongly advise patients and caregivers to always use a graduated oral syringe or measuring cup, with metric units of measurements (i.e., mL), to correctly measure the prescribed amount of medication. Inform patients and caregivers that oral dosing devices may be obtained from their pharmacy and to never use household teaspoons or tablespoons to measure Meperidine Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. 2. 2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Ov erdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 )]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. 2.3 Initial Dosage Use of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets or Oral Solution as the First Opioid Analgesic • Adults Initiate treatment with Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets or Oral Solution in a dosing range of 50 mg to 150 mg (5 mL to 15 mL) orally, every 3 or 4 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets or Oral Solution. • Pediatric Patients Initiate treatment with Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets or Oral Solution in a dosing range of 1.1 mg/kg to 1.8 mg/kg orally, up to the adult dose, every 3 or 4 hours as needed, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets or Oral Solution. 2.4 Dosage Modification with Concomitant Use with Phenothiazines The dose of meperidine should be reduced by 25% to 50% when administered concomitantly with phenothiazines and other tranquilizers. 2.5 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. If adequate pain management cannot be achieved with a total daily dosage of 600 mg or less, discontinue treatment with meperidine by tapering the dose and select an alternate analgesic. Continually reevaluate patients receiving meperidine to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.17 )] . Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the meperidine dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.6 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )].

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP 50 mg tablet is supplied as a white, round tablet, scored on one side with “54 879” debossed on the other side. NDC 0054-8595-11: 1 x 25 Unit-Dose (Reverse Numbered) Tablets NDC 0054-4595-25: Bottle of 100 Tablets 100 mg tablet is supplied as a white, round tablet, scored on one side with “54 163” debossed on the other side. NDC 0054-4596-25: Bottle of 100 Tablets Meperidine Hydrochloride Oral Solution, USP 50 mg per 5 mL oral solution is supplied as a clear, colorless, slightly viscous (unflavored) solution. NDC 0054-3545-63: Bottle of 500 mL Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP/NF. Store at 20º to 25ºC (68º to 77ºF). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Store Meperidine Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution securely and dispose of properly [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] .

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 15bc51a8-1e24-4d33-9a2f-05a41c29acf0
