Name: Mepolizumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NUCALA is an interleukin-5 (IL-5) antagonist monoclonal antibody (IgG1 kappa) indicated for: • Add-on maintenance treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with severe asthma and with an eosinophilic phenotype. ( 1.1 ) • Add-on maintenance treatment of adult patients aged 18 years and older with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP). ( 1.2 ) • Add-on maintenance treatment of adult patients with inadequately controlled chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and an eosinophilic phenotype. ( 1.3 ) • The treatment of adult patients with eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA). ( 1.4 ) • The treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older with hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) for greater than or equal to 6 months without an identifiable non-hematologic secondary cause. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of use: Not for relief of acute bronchospasm or status asthmaticus. ( 1.1 , 1.3 ) 1.1 Maintenance Treatment of Severe Asthma NUCALA is indicated for the add-on maintenance treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with severe asthma and with an eosinophilic phenotype [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Limitations of Use NUCALA is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or status asthmaticus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 1.2 Maintenance Treatment of Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps NUCALA is indicated for the add-on maintenance treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) in adult patients aged 18 years and older with inadequate response to nasal corticosteroids. 1.3 Maintenance Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease NUCALA is indicated for the add-on maintenance treatment of adult patients with inadequately controlled chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and an eosinophilic phenotype. Limitations of Use NUCALA is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 1.4 Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis NUCALA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA). 1.5 Hypereosinophilic Syndrome NUCALA is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older with hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) for greater than or equal to 6 months without an identifiable non-hematologic secondary cause.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Severe asthma in patients aged 12 years and older: 100 mg administered subcutaneously once every 4 weeks. ( 2.1 ) • Severe asthma in patients aged 6 to 11 years: 40 mg administered subcutaneously once every 4 weeks. ( 2.1 ) • CRSwNP: 100 mg administered subcutaneously once every 4 weeks. ( 2.1 ) • COPD: 100 mg administered subcutaneously once every 4 weeks. ( 2.1 ) • EGPA: 300 mg administered subcutaneously once every 4 weeks. ( 2.1 ) • HES: 300 mg administered subcutaneously once every 4 weeks. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage NUCALA is for subcutaneous use only, and should be injected into the upper arm, thigh, or abdomen [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 )]. Table 1. Recommended Dosage of NUCALA a 300 mg dose is administered as 3 separate 100 mg dose injections administered at least 5 cm (approximately 2 inches) apart. Indication Adults Pediatric Patients Severe asthma 100 mg every 4 weeks • 12 to 17 years of age: 100 mg every 4 weeks • 6 to 11 years of age: 40 mg every 4 weeks Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps 100 mg every 4 weeks Not applicable Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 100 mg every 4 weeks Not applicable Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis 300 mg a every 4 weeks Not applicable Hypereosinophilic syndrome 300 mg a every 4 weeks 12 to 17 years of age: 300 mg a every 4 weeks 2.2 Preparation and Administration of NUCALA for Injection Vial NUCALA for injection should be reconstituted and administered by a healthcare professional. In line with clinical practice, monitoring of patients after administration of biologic agents is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Reconstitution Instructions 1. Reconstitute NUCALA for injection in the vial with 1.2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP, preferably using a 2- or 3-mL syringe and a 21-gauge needle. The reconstituted solution will contain a concentration of 100 mg/mL mepolizumab. Do not mix with other medications. 2. Direct the stream of Sterile Water for Injection vertically onto the center of the lyophilized powder, which may have a cake-like appearance. Gently swirl the vial for 10 seconds with a circular motion at 15-second intervals until the powder is dissolved. Note: Do not shake the reconstituted solution during the procedure as this may lead to product foaming or precipitation. Reconstitution is typically complete within 5 minutes after the Sterile Water for Injection has been added, but it may take additional time. 3. If a mechanical reconstitution device (swirler) is used to reconstitute NUCALA for injection, swirl at 450 rpm for no longer than 10 minutes. Alternatively, swirling at 1,000 rpm for no longer than 5 minutes is acceptable. 4. Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter and clarity before use. The solution should be clear to opalescent and colorless to pale yellow or pale brown, essentially particle free. Small air bubbles, however, are expected and acceptable. If particulate matter remains in the solution or if the solution appears cloudy or milky, the solution must not be administered. 5. If the reconstituted solution is not used immediately: • store below 30°C (86°F), • do not freeze, and • discard if not used within 8 hours of reconstitution. Administration of 100 mg Dose 1. For subcutaneous administration, preferably using a 1-mL polypropylene syringe fitted with a disposable 21- to 27-gauge x 0.5-inch (13-mm) needle. 2. Just before administration, remove 1 mL of reconstituted NUCALA for injection. Do not shake the reconstituted solution during the procedure as this could lead to product foaming or precipitation. 3. Administer the 1 mL injection (equivalent to 100 mg of mepolizumab) subcutaneously into the upper arm, thigh, or abdomen. Administration of 40 mg Dose 1. For subcutaneous administration, preferably using a 1-mL polypropylene syringe fitted with a disposable 21- to 27-gauge x 0.5-inch (13-mm) needle. 2. Just before administration, remove 0.4 mL of reconstituted NUCALA for injection. Do not shake the reconstituted solution during the procedure as this could lead to product foaming or precipitation. 3. Administer the 0.4 mL injection (equivalent to 40 mg of mepolizumab) subcutaneously into the upper arm, thigh, or abdomen. Each vial of NUCALA for injection should be used for a single patient, and any remainder of the contents should be discarded. 2.3 Preparation and Administration of NUCALA Injection Prefilled Autoinjector and Prefilled Syringes NUCALA injection is intended for use under the guidance of a healthcare provider. The 100 mg/mL prefilled autoinjector and 100 mg/mL prefilled syringe are only for use in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and older. A patient may self-inject, or the patient caregiver may administer NUCALA injection 100 mg/mL subcutaneously after the healthcare provider determines it is appropriate. The 40 mg/0.4 mL prefilled syringe is only for use in children aged 6 to 11 years and must be administered by the healthcare provider or the patient caregiver. The patient caregiver may administer NUCALA injection 40 mg/0.4 mL subcutaneously after the healthcare provider determines it is appropriate. Provide proper training in subcutaneous injection technique and on the preparation and administration of NUCALA injection prior to use [see Instructions for Use] . 1. Remove the prefilled autoinjector or prefilled syringe from the refrigerator and allow it to sit at room temperature for 30 minutes prior to injection. Do not warm NUCALA injection in any other way. 2. Prior to administration, visually inspect the window of the prefilled autoinjector or the prefilled syringe for particulate matter or discoloration. NUCALA injection should be clear to opalescent, colorless to pale yellow to pale brown in color. Do not use NUCALA injection if the product exhibits discoloration, cloudiness, or particulate matter. Do not use the NUCALA prefilled autoinjector or prefilled syringe if dropped on a hard surface. 3. Administer the subcutaneous injection into the thigh or abdomen, avoiding the 5 cm (approximately 2 inches) around the navel. The upper arm can also be used if a caregiver administers the subcutaneous injection. 4. For use in EGPA and HES, ensure injection sites for each subcutaneous injection are separated by at least 5 cm (approximately 2 inches). 5. Never give injections into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or hard. 6. If a dose is missed, administer a dose as soon as possible. Thereafter, the patient can resume dosing on the usual day of administration. If the next dose is already due, then administer as planned.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING NUCALA for Injection NUCALA (mepolizumab) for injection is a sterile, preservative-free, white to off-white, lyophilized powder for reconstitution and subcutaneous injection in a single-dose glass vial with a flip-off seal. The vial stopper is not made with natural rubber latex. NUCALA for injection is supplied as: 100-mg single-dose vials in cartons of 1 (NDC 0173-0881-01). Store vials below 77°F (25°C). Do not freeze. Store in the original carton to protect from light. NUCALA Injection NUCALA (mepolizumab) injection is a sterile, preservative-free, clear to opalescent, colorless to pale yellow to pale brown solution for subcutaneous use. Each single-dose prefilled autoinjector delivers 100 mg of mepolizumab in 1 mL of solution. Each single-dose prefilled syringe delivers 100 mg of mepolizumab in 1 mL of solution or 40 mg of mepolizumab in 0.4 mL of solution. The autoinjectors and syringes are not made with natural rubber latex. NUCALA injection is supplied as: • 100 mg/mL, single-dose, prefilled autoinjector with attached 29-gauge, half-inch needle in cartons of 1 (NDC 0173-0892-01). • 100 mg/mL, single-dose, prefilled glass syringe with attached 29-gauge, half-inch needle with a needle guard in cartons of 1 (NDC 0173-0892-42). • 40 mg/0.4 mL, single-dose, prefilled glass syringe with attached 29-gauge, half-inch needle with a needle guard in cartons of 1 (NDC 0173-0904-42). Prior to Dispensing: Refrigerate prefilled autoinjectors and prefilled syringes at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C). Keep the product in the original carton to protect from light. Do not freeze. Do not shake. Avoid exposure to heat. Following Dispensing: Refrigerate prefilled autoinjectors and prefilled syringes at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C). Keep the product in the original carton to protect from light until the time of use. Do not freeze. Do not shake. Avoid exposure to heat. If necessary, an unopened carton can be stored outside the refrigerator at up to 86°F (30°C) for up to 7 days. Discard if left out of the refrigerator for more than 7 days. NUCALA injection must be administered within 8 hours after removal from the carton. Discard if not administered within 8 hours.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: fefb887c-e4ac-431e-8893-e9d1a5a63fea
