Name: Mercaptopurine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mercaptopurine is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Mercaptopurine is indicated for the treatment of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended starting dosage of mercaptopurine oral suspension is 1.5 mg/kg to 2.5 mg/kg (50 mg/m 2 to 75 mg/m 2 ) orally once daily as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. Adjust dose to maintain desirable absolute neutrophil count and for excessive myelosuppression. ( 2.1 ) • Renal Impairment : Use the lowest recommended starting dose or increase the dosing interval. ( 2.3 , 8.6 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Use the lowest recommended starting dose. ( 2.3 , 8.7 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dose of mercaptopurine oral suspension is 1.5 mg/kg to 2.5 mg/kg (50 mg/m 2 to 75 mg/m 2 ) orally once daily as part of combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. Take mercaptopurine oral suspension either consistently with or without food. After initiating mercaptopurine, monitor complete blood counts (CBC) and adjust the dose to maintain absolute neutrophil count (ANC) at a desirable level and for excessive myelosuppression. Evaluate the bone marrow in patients with prolonged myelosuppression or repeated episodes of myelosuppression to assess leukemia status and marrow cellularity. Evaluate thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) and nucleotide diphosphatase (NUDT15) status in patients with severe myelosuppression or repeated episodes of myelosuppression [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . If a patient misses a dose, instruct the patient to continue with the next scheduled dose. 2.2 Dosage Modifications in Patients with TPMT and NUDT15 Deficiency Consider testing for TPMT and NUDT15 deficiency in patients who experience severe myelosuppression or repeated episodes of myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Homozygous Deficiency in either TPMT or NUDT15 Patients with homozygous deficiency of either enzyme typically require 10% or less of the recommended dosage. Reduce the recommended starting dosage of mercaptopurine in patients who are known to have homozygous TPMT or NUDT15 deficiency. Heterozygous Deficiency in TPMT and/or NUDT15 Reduce the mercaptopurine dosage based on tolerability. Most patients with heterozygous TPMT or NUDT15 deficiency tolerate recommended dosage, but some require dose reduction based on adverse reactions. Patients who are heterozygous for both TPMT and NUDT15 may require more substantial dose reductions. 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Renal and Hepatic Impairment Renal Impairment Use the lowest recommended starting dosage for mercaptopurine in patients with renal impairment (CLcr less than 50 mL/min). Adjust the dosage to maintain absolute neutrophil count (ANC) at a desirable level and for adverse reactions [see Uses in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Hepatic Impairment Use the lowest recommended starting dosage for mercaptopurine in patients with hepatic impairment. Adjust the dosage to maintain absolute neutrophil count (ANC) at a desirable level and for adverse reactions [see Uses in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . 2.4 Dosage Modification with Concomitant Use of Allopurinol Reduce the dose of mercaptopurine to one-third to one-quarter of the current dosage when coadministered with allopurinol [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 2.5 Administration Shake the bottle vigorously for at least 30 seconds to ensure the oral suspension is well mixed. Mercaptopurine oral suspension is a pink to brown viscous oral suspension. Provide a press-in bottle adapter and two oral dispensing syringes (one 1 mL and one 5 mL). Train patients or caregivers on proper handling, storage, administration, disposal and clean-up of accidental spillage prior to initiation of mercaptopurine oral suspension and during each visit to the clinic. Advise patients and caregivers to use mercaptopurine oral suspension within 8 weeks and properly discard remaining mercaptopurine oral suspension after 8 weeks. Provide instructions regarding which syringe to use and how to administer the specified dose, since mercaptopurine oral suspension is supplied with 1 mL and 5 mL oral dispensing syringes. Advise patients that the oral dispensing syringe is intended for multiple uses and provide the following instructions: • Wash the oral dispensing syringe with warm ‘soapy’ water and rinse well; • Hold the oral dispensing syringe under water and move the plunger up and down several times to make sure the inside of the oral dispensing syringe is clean; • Ensure the oral dispensing syringe is completely dry before use of the oral dispensing syringe again; and • Store the oral dispensing syringe in a hygienic place with mercaptopurine oral suspension. Mercaptopurine is a hazardous drug. Follow special handling and disposal procedures. 1

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Mercaptopurine Oral Suspension is supplied as 2,000 mg/100 mL (20 mg/mL) pink to brown viscous liquid in amber glass multiple-dose bottles. In addition, a press-in bottle adapter and two oral dispensing syringes (one 1 mL and one 5 mL) are provided. Each carton NDC 0054-0879-49 contains 1 bottle of Mercaptopurine Oral Suspension NDC 0054-0879-49. • Store Mercaptopurine Oral Suspension at 20º to 25ºC (68º to 77ºF) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Store in a dry place. Mercaptopurine is a hazardous drug. Follow special handling and disposal procedures. 1

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0a366cf3-91f0-4aa4-8f34-a7a27cad8f15
