Name: Methamphetamine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older. • Methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets are a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets orally once daily or in two divided doses daily. Avoid administration late in the evening due to the risk of insomnia. ( 2.2 ) • Recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once or twice daily. ( 2.3 ) • Daily dosage may be increased in 5 mg increments at weekly intervals depending on clinical response. ( 2.3 ) • The recommended dosage range is 20 mg to 25 mg daily. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets, assess: • for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical examination) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . • the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . 2.2 Important Dosing Information Administer methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets orally once daily or in two divided doses daily. Avoid taking methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets late in the evening due to the risk of insomnia. 2.3 Recommended Dosage For pediatric patients 6 years of age and older, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets once or twice daily. The daily dosage may be increased in increments of 5 mg at weekly intervals based on clinical response of the patient. The recommended dosage range is 20 mg to 25 mg daily. 2.4 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Agents that alter urinary pH can impact excretion and alter blood levels of amphetamine. Acidifying agents (e.g., ascorbic acid) decrease blood levels, while alkalinizing agents (e.g., sodium bicarbonate) increase blood levels. Adjust methamphetamine hydrochloride tablets dosage based on clinical response [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Methamphetamine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP How Supplied 5 mg tablets are supplied as a round, white to off-white, biconvex, debossed tablet with “54” on one side and “681” on the other side. NDC 0054-0389-25: Bottle of 100 tablets Storage and Handling Recommended Storage: Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Dispense in a tight, light resistant, child-resistant container as defined in the USP/NF.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 90c02ac6-e5e2-4c97-8c68-81e4e389a195
