Name: Methylergonovine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Following delivery of placenta, for routine management of uterine atony, hemorrhage and subinvolution of the uterus. For control of uterine hemorrhage in the second stage of labor following delivery of the anterior shoulder.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Orally One tablet, 0.2 mg, 3 or 4 times daily in the puerperium for a maximum of 1 week.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED White, round, biconvex compressed tablets debossed with "T" on one side and "01" on the other side. Available in bottles of 12 and 28 tablets. Bottles of 12 NDC 83400-100-12 Bottles of 28 NDC 83400-100-28 STORE AND DISPENSE Tablets: Store below 25°C (77°F); in a tight, light-resistant container. WARNINGS General This drug should not be administered I.V. routinely because of the possibility of inducing sudden hypertensive and cerebrovascular accidents. If I.V administration is considered essential as a lifesaving measure, methylergonovine maleate should be given slowly over a period of no less than 60 seconds with careful monitoring of blood pressure. Intra-arterial or periarterial injection should be strictly avoided. Caution should be exercised in presence of impaired hepatic or renal function. Breast-feeding Mothers should not breast-feed during treatment with methylergonovine maleate tablets, USP. Milk secreted during this period should be discarded. Methylergonovine maleate tablets, USP may produce adverse effects in the breast-feeding infant. Methylergonovine maleate tablets, USP may also reduce the yield of breast milk. Mothers should wait at least 12 hours after administration of the last dose of methylergonovine maleate tablets, USP before initiating or resuming breast feeding. Coronary artery disease Patients with coronary artery disease or risk factors for coronary artery disease (e.g., smoking, obesity, diabetes, high cholesterol) may be more susceptible to developing myocardial ischemia and infarction associated with methylergonovine-induced vasospasm. Medication errors Inadvertent administration of methylergonovine maleate tablets, USP to newborn infants has been reported. In these cases of inadvertent neonatal exposure, symptoms such as respiratory depression, convulsions, cyanosis and oliguria have been reported. Usual treatment is symptomatic. However, in severe cases, respiratory and cardiovascular support is required. Methylergonovine maleate tablets, USP have been administered instead of vitamin K and Hepatitis B vaccine, medications which are routinely administered to the newborn. Due to the potential for accidental neonatal exposure, methylergonovine maleate should be stored separately from medications intended for neonatal administration.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0a318b77-d280-4571-992f-82e2e0a57c9b
