Name: Methylcellulose

introduction: Uses • relieves constipation (irregularity) • helps to restore and maintain regularity • for treating bowel disorders when recommended by a doctor • generally provide effect in 12-72 hours

dosage_text: Directions • MIX THIS PRODUCT (CHILD OR ADULT DOSE) WITH AT LEAST 8 OUNCES (A FULL GLASS) OF WATER OR OTHER FLUID. TAKING THIS PRODUCT WITHOUT ENOUGH LIQUID MAY CAUSE CHOKING. SEE CHOKING WARNING • use product at the first sign of constipation or irregularity • put one dose in a full glass of cold water • stir briskly and drink promptly • drinking another glass of water is helpful Age Dose adults & children above 12 years of age and over one rounded tablespoon. (19 g) in 8 ounces of water fluid up to 3 times daily at the first sign of constipation or irregularity children 6 - 12 years of age half the adult dose in 8 ounces of water once daily. children under 6 years of age ask a doctor

how_to_use: Warnings CHOKING: taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking. Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing. If you experience chest pain, vomiting, or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product, seek immediate medical attention. Ask a doctor before use if you have • abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting • a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • sensitivity to any of the ingredients Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have rectal bleeding • you fail to have a bowl movement after use. • These could be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222. When using this product • do not exceed recommended maximum daily dose unless directed by a doctor • do not use laxative products for a period longer than one week unless directed by a doctor

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 31033385-7932-448e-8980-11f2e8197eae
