Name: Methylnaltrexone

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RELISTOR is an opioid antagonist. RELISTOR tablets and RELISTOR injection are indicated for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in adults with chronic non-cancer pain, including patients with chronic pain related to prior cancer or its treatment who do not require frequent (e.g., weekly) opioid dosage escalation. ( 1.1 ) RELISTOR injection is indicated for the treatment of OIC in adults with advanced illness or pain caused by active cancer who require opioid dosage escalation for palliative care. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Opioid-Induced Constipation in Adult Patients with Chronic Non-Cancer Pain RELISTOR tablets and RELISTOR injection are indicated for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain, including patients with chronic pain related to prior cancer or its treatment who do not require frequent (e.g., weekly) opioid dosage escalation. 1.2 Opioid-Induced Constipation in Adult Patients with Advanced Illness RELISTOR injection is indicated for the treatment of OIC in adult patients with advanced illness or pain caused by active cancer who require opioid dosage escalation for palliative care.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions ( 2.1 ) Be within close proximity to toilet facilities once administered. Discontinue if treatment with opioid pain medication is also discontinued. In adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain and OIC: Patients receiving opioids for less than 4 weeks may be less responsive to RELISTOR. Discontinue all maintenance laxative therapy before starting RELISTOR; may resume laxatives if there is a suboptimal response to RELISTOR after 3 days. Re-evaluate the continued need for RELISTOR when opioid regimen is changed to avoid adverse reactions. In patients with chronic non-cancer pain and OIC, take RELISTOR tablets with water on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before the first meal of the day. Dosing For OIC in adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain ( 2.2 ): RELISTOR tablets: The recommended dosage is 450 mg once daily in the morning. RELISTOR injection: The recommended dosage is 12 mg subcutaneously once daily. For OIC in adult patients with advanced illness ( 2.3 ): The pre-filled syringe is only for patients who require a RELISTOR injection dose of 8 mg or 12 mg. Use the vial for patients who require other doses of RELISTOR injection. RELISTOR injection: See Table 1 in the full prescribing information for the recommended dosage; administer one dose every other day, as needed, but no more frequently than one dose in a 24-hour period. Dosage Adjustment See full prescribing information dosage adjustment in renal or hepatic impairment by indication. ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) Preparation and Administration of RELISTOR Injection ( 2.6 ) For subcutaneous use only. Inject in upper arm, abdomen or thigh. Rotate injection sites. 2.1 Important Administration Information Be within close proximity to toilet facilities once RELISTOR is administered. Discontinue RELISTOR if treatment with the opioid pain medication is also discontinued. In adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain and OIC: Patients receiving opioids for less than 4 weeks may be less responsive to RELISTOR [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Discontinue all maintenance laxative therapy prior to initiation of RELISTOR. Laxative(s) can be used as needed if there is a suboptimal response to RELISTOR after three days. Re-evaluate the continued need for RELISTOR when the opioid regimen is changed to avoid adverse reactions. In patients with chronic non-cancer pain and OIC, take RELISTOR tablets with water on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before the first meal of the day. 2.2 Opioid-Induced Constipation in Adult Patients with Chronic Non-Cancer Pain The recommended dosage of RELISTOR tablets is 450 mg taken orally once daily in the morning. The recommended dosage of RELISTOR injection is 12 mg administered subcutaneously once daily. 2.3 Opioid-Induced Constipation in Adult Patients with Advanced Illness The pre-filled syringe is only for patients who require a RELISTOR injection dose of 8 mg or 12 mg. Use the vial for patients who require other doses of RELISTOR injection. Table 1 below shows the recommended weight-based dose of RELISTOR injection and the corresponding injection volume. The recommended dosage regimen is one dose administered subcutaneously every other day, as needed. Do not administer more frequently than one dose per 24-hour period. Table 1: Weight-Based Dosing of RELISTOR Injection and Corresponding Injection Volume for Adult Patients with OIC and Advanced Illness Weight of Adult Patient Subcutaneous Dose Injection Volume Less than 38 kg 0.15 mg/kg See below* 38 kg to less than 62 kg 8 mg 0.4 mL 62 kg to 114 kg 12 mg 0.6 mL More than 114 kg 0.15 mg/kg See below* *Calculate the injection volume for these patients by multiplying the patient weight in kilograms by 0.0075 and then rounding up the volume to the nearest 0.1 mL. 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended dosage of RELISTOR in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment (i.e., creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute as estimated by Cockcroft-Gault) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] , is shown below by indication: OIC in Adult Patients with Chronic Non - Cancer Pain RELISTOR tablets: 150 mg once daily in the morning. RELISTOR injection: 6 mg administered subcutaneously once daily OIC in Adult Patients with Advanced Illness RELISTOR injection: The recommended dosage regimen is one dose every other day, as needed is shown in Table 2 . Table 2: Weight-Based Dosing in Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment of RELISTOR Injection and Corresponding Injection Volume for Adult Patients with OIC and Advanced Illness Weight of Adult Patient Subcutaneous Dose Injection Volume Less than 38 kg 0.075 mg/kg See below* 38 kg to less than 62 kg 4 mg 0.2 mL 62 kg to 114 kg 6 mg 0.3 mL More than 114 kg 0.075 mg/kg See below* *Calculate the injection volume for these patients by multiplying the patient weight in kilograms by 0.00375 and then rounding up the volume to the nearest 0.1 mL. 2.5 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment OIC in Adult Patients with Chronic Non-Cancer Pain RELISTOR tablets: The recommended dosage in adult patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B or C) is 150 mg, once daily in the morning [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. RELISTOR injection: If considering dose adjustment for patients with severe hepatic impairment, follow the recommendations in Table 3 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. Table 3: Weight-Based Dosing in Severe Hepatic Impairment of RELISTOR Injection and Corresponding Injection Volume for Adult Patients with OIC and Chronic Non-Cancer Pain Weight of Adult Patient Subcutaneous Dose Injection Volume Less than 38 kg 0.075 mg/kg See below* 38 kg to less than 62 kg 4 mg 0.2 mL 62 kg to 114 kg 6 mg 0.3 mL More than 114 kg 0.075 mg/kg See below* * Calculate the injection volume for these patients by multiplying the patient weight in kilograms by 0.00375 and then rounding up the volume to the nearest 0.1 mL. 2.6 Preparation and Administration of RELISTOR Injection RELISTOR injection is for subcutaneous use only. Single-dose pre-filled syringes: Do not remove the pre-filled syringe from the tray until ready to administer. Inspect RELISTOR injection visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. RELISTOR injection is colorless to pale yellow. Discard the pre-filled syringe or vial if particulate matter or discoloration is present. Administer RELISTOR injection subcutaneously in the upper arm, abdomen or thigh. Do not inject at the same spot each time (rotate injection sites). RELISTOR single-dose vials: Once drawn into the syringe, if immediate administration is not possible, store at ambient room temperature and administer within 24 hours. Discard any unused portion that remains in the vial. For patient or caregiver instructions for preparation and administration of RELISTOR injection (including recommended specifications for the syringe and needle to be used with the single-dose vial), see Instructions for Use. 2.1 Important Administration Information Be within close proximity to toilet facilities once RELISTOR is administered. Discontinue RELISTOR if treatment with the opioid pain medication is also discontinued. In adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain and OIC: Patients receiving opioids for less than 4 weeks may be less responsive to RELISTOR [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Discontinue all maintenance laxative therapy prior to initiation of RELISTOR. Laxative(s) can be used as needed if there is a suboptimal response to RELISTOR after three days. Re-evaluate the continued need for RELISTOR when the opioid regimen is changed to avoid adverse reactions. In patients with chronic non-cancer pain and OIC, take RELISTOR tablets with water on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before the first meal of the day. 2.3 Opioid-Induced Constipation in Adult Patients with Advanced Illness The pre-filled syringe is only for patients who require a RELISTOR injection dose of 8 mg or 12 mg. Use the vial for patients who require other doses of RELISTOR injection. Table 1 below shows the recommended weight-based dose of RELISTOR injection and the corresponding injection volume. The recommended dosage regimen is one dose administered subcutaneously every other day, as needed. Do not administer more frequently than one dose per 24-hour period. Table 1: Weight-Based Dosing of RELISTOR Injection and Corresponding Injection Volume for Adult Patients with OIC and Advanced Illness Weight of Adult Patient Subcutaneous Dose Injection Volume Less than 38 kg 0.15 mg/kg See below* 38 kg to less than 62 kg 8 mg 0.4 mL 62 kg to 114 kg 12 mg 0.6 mL More than 114 kg 0.15 mg/kg See below* *Calculate the injection volume for these patients by multiplying the patient weight in kilograms by 0.0075 and then rounding up the volume to the nearest 0.1 mL. 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended dosage of RELISTOR in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment (i.e., creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute as estimated by Cockcroft-Gault) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] , is shown below by indication: OIC in Adult Patients with Chronic Non - Cancer Pain RELISTOR tablets: 150 mg once daily in the morning. RELISTOR injection: 6 mg administered subcutaneously once daily OIC in Adult Patients with Advanced Illness RELISTOR injection: The recommended dosage regimen is one dose every other day, as needed is shown in Table 2 . Table 2: Weight-Based Dosing in Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment of RELISTOR Injection and Corresponding Injection Volume for Adult Patients with OIC and Advanced Illness Weight of Adult Patient Subcutaneous Dose Injection Volume Less than 38 kg 0.075 mg/kg See below* 38 kg to less than 62 kg 4 mg 0.2 mL 62 kg to 114 kg 6 mg 0.3 mL More than 114 kg 0.075 mg/kg See below* *Calculate the injection volume for these patients by multiplying the patient weight in kilograms by 0.00375 and then rounding up the volume to the nearest 0.1 mL.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied NDC Number Pack Size Contents 65649-150-90 90-count bottle 100-mL bottle containing 90 tablets and 2 silica gel desiccant canisters. Each 150 mg film-coated tablet is white, round, biconvex, and debossed with “REL” on one side and plain on the other side. 65649-551-02 1 vial per carton One 12 mg/0.6 mL single-dose vial containing a colorless to pale yellow solution. 65649-552-04 7 pre-filled syringes per carton Seven 8 mg/0.4 mL single-dose pre-filled syringes with needle guard system containing a colorless to pale yellow solution. 65649-551-03 7 pre-filled syringes per carton Seven 12 mg/0.6 mL single-dose pre-filled syringes with needle guard system containing a colorless to pale yellow solution. 65649-551-07 1 pre-filled syringe per carton One 12 mg/0.6 mL single-dose pre-filled syringe with needle guard system containing a colorless to pale yellow solution. Storage Tablets Store at up to 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Injection Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Do not freeze. Protect from light.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: c488fb7c-0a5b-487c-b452-996809d1cb99
