Name: Methotrexate

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate tablets are a diydrofolate reductase inhibitor indicated for the: • Treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen (1.1) • Treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (1.1) • Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma as part of a metronomic combination regimen (1.1) • Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis (1.2) • Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) (1.3) • Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis (1.4) 1.1 Neoplastic Diseases Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the: • treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen • treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen • treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 1.3 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA). 1.4 Psoriasis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with severe psoriasis.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths. (2.1, 5.9) • Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets. (4, 5.1) • ALL: The recommended dosage is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly as a part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. (2.2) • Mycosis fungoides: The recommended dosage is 25 to 75 mg orally once weekly as monotherapy; 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of combination chemotherapy. (2.2) • Relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma: The recommended dosage is 2.5 mg orally two to four times per week as part of metronomic combination chemotherapy. (2.2) • Rheumatoid Arthritis: The recommended starting dosage is 7.5 mg orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response. (2.3) • pJIA: The recommended starting dosage is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response. (2.4) • Psoriasis: The recommended dosage is 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until adequate response is achieved. (2.5) 2.1 Important Dosage and Safety Information Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. When switching the dosing regimen from oral administration to intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous administration, an alternative dosing regimen may be necessary. Do not administer to patients who are unable to swallow a tablet. Methotrexate tablets are a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Neoplastic Diseases Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly, as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. After initiating methotrexate tablets, periodically monitor absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and platelet count and adjust the dose to maintain ANC at a desirable level and for excessive myelosuppression. Mycosis Fungoides The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 25 to 75 mg orally once weekly when administered as a single agent or 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 2.5 mg orally 2 to 4 times per week (maximum 10 mg per week) as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets is 7.5 mg orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. Dosages of more than 20 mg once weekly result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions, including myelosuppression. When responses are observed, the majority occurred between 3 and 6 weeks from initiation of treatment; however, responses have occurred up to 12 weeks after treatment initiation. Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. Dosages of more than 30 mg/m 2 once weekly result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions, including myelosuppression. When responses are observed, the majority occurred between 3 and 6 weeks from initiation of treatment; however, responses have occurred up to 12 weeks after treatment initiation. Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Psoriasis The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until an adequate response is achieved. Adjust the dose gradually to achieve optimal clinical response; do not exceed a dose of 30 mg per week. Once optimal clinical response has been achieved, reduce the dosage to the lowest possible dosing regimen. Administer folic acid or folinic acid supplementation to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue methotrexate tablets for: • Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: • Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: • Severe gastrointestinal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.4)] • Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.5)] • Pulmonary toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.6)] • Severe dermatologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions 5.7)] • Severe renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.8)] • Serious infections [see Warnings and Precautions 5.11)] • Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.12)]

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Methotrexate tablets USP, 2.5 mg having functional scoring are supplied as pale yellow to yellow, round, uncoated tablets with debossing “C7” on one side and scoring on other side. • 36 count bottle with child-resistant closure, NDC 62332-730-36 • 100 count bottle with child-resistant closure, NDC 62332-730-31 Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Methotrexate tablet, USP is a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 04a95db9-a124-4b97-bd71-1c37a6b3b0c8
