Name: Midodrine

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midodrine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic orthostatic hypotension (OH). Because midodrine hydrochloride tablets can cause marked elevation of supine blood pressure (BP>200 mmHg systolic), it should be used in patients whose lives are considerably impaired despite standard clinical care, including non-pharmacologic treatment (such as support stockings), fluid expansion, and lifestyle alterations. The indication is based on midodrine’s effect on increases in 1-minute standing systolic blood pressure, a surrogate marker considered likely to correspond to a clinical benefit. At present, however, clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride tablets, principally improved ability to perform life activities, have not been established. Further clinical trials are underway to verify and describe the clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride tablets. After initiation of treatment, midodrine hydrochloride tablets should be continued only for patients who report significant symptomatic improvement.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of midodrine hydrochloride tablet is 10 mg, 3 times daily. Dosing should take place during the daytime hours when the patient needs to be upright, pursuing the activities of daily living. A suggested dosing schedule of approximately 4-hour intervals is as follows: shortly before, or upon arising in the morning, midday and late afternoon (not later than 6 P.M.). Doses may be given in 3-hour intervals, if required, to control symptoms, but not more frequently. Single doses as high as 20 mg have been given to patients, but severe and persistent systolic supine hypertension occurs at a high rate (about 45%) at this dose. In order to reduce the potential for supine hypertension during sleep, midodrine hydrochloride tablets should not be given after the evening meal or less than 4 hours before bedtime. Total daily doses greater than 30 mg have been tolerated by some patients, but their safety and usefulness have not been studied systematically or established. Because of the risk of supine hypertension, midodrine hydrochloride tablets should be continued only in patients who appear to attain symptomatic improvement during initial treatment. The supine and standing blood pressure should be monitored regularly, and the administration of midodrine hydrochloride tablets should be stopped if supine blood pressure increases excessively. Because desglymidodrine is excreted renally, dosing in patients with abnormal renal function should be cautious; although this has not been systematically studied, it is recommended that treatment of these patients be initiated using 2.5 mg doses. Dosing in children has not been adequately studied. Blood levels of midodrine and desglymidodrine were similar when comparing levels in patients 65 or older vs. younger than 65 and when comparing males vs. females, suggesting dose modifications for these groups are not necessary.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Midodrine hydrochloride tablets, USP are available as 2.5 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg tablets for oral administration. Midodrine hydrochloride tablets USP, 2.5 mg having functional scoring are white to off-white round, flat-faced, beveled edge, scored tablets debossed with ‘L’ above the score and plain on below the score on one side of the tablet and ‘584’ on the other side. Bottle of 100 tabletswith child resistant closure, NDC 46708-338-31 Bottle of 500 tablets NDC 46708-338-71 Midodrine hydrochloride tablets USP, 5 mg having functional scoring are white to off-white round, flat-faced, beveled edge, scored tablets debossed with ‘L’ above the score and plain on below the score on one side of the tablet and ‘585’ on the other side. Bottle of 100 tabletswith child resistant closure, NDC 46708-339-31 Bottle of 500 tablets NDC 46708-339-71 Midodrine hydrochloride tablets USP, 10 mg having functional scoring are white to off-white round, flat-faced, beveled edge, scored tablets debossed with ‘L’ above the score and plain on below the score on one side of the tablet and ‘586’ on the other side. Bottle of 100 tabletswith child resistant closure, NDC 46708-340-31 Bottle of 500 tablets NDC 46708-340-71 Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Rx only Manufactured by: Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited (Formulation Division) Village Panelav, P. O. Tajpura, Near Baska, Taluka-Halol, Panchmahal 389350, Gujarat, India. Revised: 06/2020 WARNINGS Supine Hypertension: The most potentially serious adverse reaction associated with midodrine therapy is marked elevation of supine arterial blood pressure (supine hypertension). Systolic pressure of about 200 mmHg were seen overall in about 13.4% of patients given 10 mg of midodrine . Systolic elevations of this degree were most likely to be observed in patients with relatively elevated pre-treatment systolic blood pressures (mean 170 mmHg). There is no experience in patients with initial supine systolic pressure above 180 mmHg, as those patients were excluded from the clinical trials. Use of midodrine in such patients is not recommended. Sitting blood pressures were also elevated by midodrine therapy. It is essential to monitor supine and sitting blood pressures in patients maintained on midodrine . Uncontrolled hypertension increases the risk of cardiovascular events, particularly stroke.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 03b54024-2a26-4abe-bd8b-b66bb6781fa7
