Name: Nabilone

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cesamet capsules are indicated for the treatment of the nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy in patients who have failed to respond adequately to conventional antiemetic treatments. This restriction is required because a substantial proportion of any group of patients treated with Cesamet can be expected to experience disturbing psychotomimetic reactions not observed with other antiemetic agents. Because of its potential to alter the mental state, Cesamet is intended for use under circumstances that permit close supervision of the patient by a responsible individual particularly during initial use of Cesamet and during dose adjustments. Cesamet contains nabilone, which is controlled in Schedule II of the Controlled Substances Act. Schedule II substances have a high potential for abuse. Prescriptions for Cesamet should be limited to the amount necessary for a single cycle of chemotherapy (i.e., a few days). Cesamet capsules are not intended to be used on as needed basis or as a first antiemetic product prescribed for a patient. As with all controlled drugs, prescribers should monitor patients receiving nabilone for signs of excessive use, abuse and misuse. Patients who may be at increased risk for substance abuse include those with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse) or mental illness.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual adult dosage is 1 or 2 mg 2 times a day. On the day of chemotherapy, the initial dose should be given 1 to 3 hours before the chemotherapeutic agent is administered. To minimize side effects, it is recommended that the lower starting dose be used and that the dose be increased as necessary. A dose of 1 or 2 mg the night before may be useful. The maximum recommended daily dose is 6 mg given in divided doses 3 times a day. Cesamet may be administered 2 or 3 times a day during the entire course of each cycle of chemotherapy and, if needed, for 48 hours after the last dose of each cycle of chemotherapy.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Cesamet® capsules (blue and white): 1 mg (bottles of 50 capsules) NDC 0187-1231-50. Capsules are imprinted with ICN on the blue cap and a four-digit code (3101) on the white body. Store at controlled room temperature 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Distributed by: Bausch Health US, LLC Bridgewater, NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by: Bausch Health Companies Inc. Laval, Quebec H7L 4A8, Canada Cesamet is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc. or its affiliates. © 2021 Bausch Health Companies Inc. or its affiliates 9754700 Rev. 02/2021 WARNINGS • The effects of Cesamet may persist for a variable and unpredictable period of time following its oral administration. Adverse psychiatric reactions can persist for 48 to 72 hours following cessation of treatment. • Cesamet has the potential to affect the CNS, which might manifest itself in dizziness, drowsiness, euphoria “high”, ataxia, anxiety, disorientation, depression, hallucinations and psychosis. • Cesamet can cause tachycardia and orthostatic hypotension. • Because of individual variation in response and tolerance to the effects of Cesamet, patients should remain under supervision of a responsible adult especially during initial use of Cesamet and during dose adjustments. • Patients receiving treatment with Cesamet should be specifically warned not to drive, operate machinery, or engage in any hazardous activity while receiving Cesamet. • Cesamet should not be taken with alcohol, sedatives, hypnotics, or other psychoactive substances because these substances can potentiate the central nervous system effects of nabilone.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 83c7ac15-ece9-47de-b83c-d575544fa449
