Name: Natalizumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TYSABRI is an integrin receptor antagonist indicated for treatment of: Multiple Sclerosis (MS) TYSABRI is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults. TYSABRI increases the risk of PML [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. When initiating and continuing treatment with TYSABRI, physicians should consider whether the expected benefit of TYSABRI is sufficient to offset this risk. ( 1.1 ) Crohn's Disease (CD) TYSABRI is indicated for inducing and maintaining clinical response and remission in adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease with evidence of inflammation who have had an inadequate response to, or are unable to tolerate, conventional CD therapies and inhibitors of TNF-α. ( 1.2 ) Important Limitations: In CD, TYSABRI should not be used in combination with immunosuppressants or inhibitors of TNF-α. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Multiple Sclerosis (MS) TYSABRI is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults. TYSABRI increases the risk of PML [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. When initiating and continuing treatment with TYSABRI, physicians should consider whether the expected benefit of TYSABRI is sufficient to offset this risk. 1.2 Crohn's Disease (CD) TYSABRI is indicated for inducing and maintaining clinical response and remission in adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease with evidence of inflammation who have had an inadequate response to, or are unable to tolerate, conventional CD therapies and inhibitors of TNF-α. TYSABRI should not be used in combination with immunosuppressants (e.g., 6-mercaptopurine, azathioprine, cyclosporine, or methotrexate) or inhibitors of TNF-α [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ].

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 300 mg infused intravenously over one hour, every four weeks. Do not give as an intravenous push or bolus ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) TYSABRI solution must be administered within 48 hours of preparation ( 2.3 ) Observe patients during all infusions. Post-infusion, for the first 12 infusions, observe patients for one hour after the infusion is complete. For patients who have received 12 infusions without evidence of a hypersensitivity reaction, observe patients post-infusion for the 13th and subsequent infusions according to clinical judgment. ( 2.4 ) In CD, discontinue in patients that have not experienced therapeutic benefit by 12 weeks of induction therapy, and in patients that cannot discontinue chronic concomitant steroids within six months of starting therapy ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Only prescribers registered in the MS TOUCH ® Prescribing Program may prescribe TYSABRI for multiple sclerosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. The recommended dose of TYSABRI for multiple sclerosis is 300 mg intravenous infusion over one hour every four weeks. 2.2 Crohn's Disease (CD) Only prescribers registered in the CD TOUCH ® Prescribing Program may prescribe TYSABRI for Crohn's disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. The recommended dose of TYSABRI for Crohn's disease is 300 mg intravenous infusion over one hour every four weeks. TYSABRI should not be used with concomitant immunosuppressants (e.g., 6-mercaptopurine, azathioprine, cyclosporine, or methotrexate) or concomitant inhibitors of TNF-α. Aminosalicylates may be continued during treatment with TYSABRI. If the patient with Crohn's disease has not experienced therapeutic benefit by 12 weeks of induction therapy, discontinue TYSABRI. For patients with Crohn's disease who start TYSABRI while on chronic oral corticosteroids, commence steroid tapering as soon as a therapeutic benefit of TYSABRI has occurred; if the patient with Crohn's disease cannot be tapered off of oral corticosteroids within six months of starting TYSABRI, discontinue TYSABRI. Other than the initial six-month taper, prescribers should consider discontinuing TYSABRI for patients who require additional steroid use that exceeds three months in a calendar year to control their Crohn's disease. 2.3 Dilution Instructions Use aseptic technique when preparing TYSABRI solution for intravenous infusion. Each vial is intended for single use only. Discard any unused portion. TYSABRI is a colorless, clear to slightly opalescent solution. Inspect the TYSABRI vial for particulate material and discoloration prior to dilution and administration. If visible particulates are observed and/or the liquid in the vial is discolored, the vial must not be used. To prepare the diluted solution, withdraw 15 mL of TYSABRI from the vial using a sterile needle and syringe. Inject TYSABRI into 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. No other intravenous diluents may be used to prepare the TYSABRI diluted solution. Gently invert the TYSABRI diluted solution to mix completely. Do not shake. Inspect the solution visually for particulate material prior to administration. The final dosage diluted solution has a concentration of 2.6 mg/mL. Following dilution, infuse TYSABRI solution immediately, or refrigerate the diluted solution at 2°C to 8°C, and use within 48 hours. If stored at 2°C to 8°C, allow the diluted solution to warm to room temperature prior to infusion. DO NOT FREEZE. 2.4 Administration Instructions Infuse TYSABRI 300 mg in 100 mL 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, over approximately one hour (infusion rate approximately 5 mg per minute). Do not administer TYSABRI as an intravenous push or bolus injection. After the infusion is complete, flush with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Observe patients during all infusions. Promptly discontinue the infusion upon the first observation of any signs or symptoms consistent with a hypersensitivity-type reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Post-infusion, for the first 12 infusions, observe patients for one hour after the infusion is complete. For patients who have received 12 infusions without evidence of a hypersensitivity reaction, observe patients post-infusion for the 13th and subsequent infusions according to clinical judgment. Use of filtration devices during administration has not been evaluated. Other medications should not be injected into infusion set side ports or mixed with TYSABRI.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING TYSABRI (natalizumab) injection, a sterile, preservative-free, colorless and clear to slightly opalescent solution for dilution prior to intravenous infusion, is supplied as one 300 mg/15 mL (20 mg/mL) single-dose vial per carton (NDC 64406-008-01). TYSABRI is available only through registered infusion centers participating in the TOUCH ® Prescribing Program. To locate these infusion centers, contact Biogen at 1-800-456-2255. TYSABRI single-dose vials must be refrigerated between 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). Do not use beyond the expiration date stamped on the carton and vial label. DO NOT SHAKE OR FREEZE. Protect from light. Store diluted TYSABRI solution refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) ]

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: c5fdde91-1989-4dd2-9129-4f3323ea2962
