Name: Neostigmine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) after surgery. Neostigmine Methylsulfate, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) after surgery ( 1 ).

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2.1 ) Recommend use of a peripheral nerve stimulator to determine whether neostigmine methylsulfate should be administered and to monitor recovery from neuromuscular blockade ( 2.1 ). Recommended dosage range is 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07mg/kg for reversing nondepolarizing neuromuscular block when administered with an anticholinergic agent (atropine or glycopyrrolate) ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) ( 2.2 ) An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate ( 2.4 ) Dose of Anticholinergic Agent (atropine or glycopyrrolate) Administer atropine sulfate (~15 mcg/kg) or glycopyrrolate (~10 mcg/kg) intravenously either several minutes before or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate (using separate syringes) ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Neostigmine should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. Prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration and up until complete recovery of normal ventilation, the patient should be well ventilated and a patent airway maintained. Use a peripheral nerve stimulator capable of delivering a train-of-four (TOF) stimulus to evaluate the extent of recovery of neuromuscular function, and to determine the time of the first dose and the need for additional doses of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection. Prior to the administration of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, there must be a twitch response to the first stimulus in the TOF of at least 10% of its baseline level (i.e., the response prior to NMBA administration). Dose selection should be based on the extent of spontaneous recovery at time of injection, half-life of the neuromuscular blocking agent (NMBA) to be reversed, and need for rapid NMBA reversal. Patients should continue to be monitored for adequacy of reversal of the effect of NMBAs for a period of time that would assure full recovery based on the patient’s medical condition and the pharmacokinetics of neostigmine and the NMBA used. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered by intravenous bolus injection. Additional, carefully adjusted bolus doses are administered according to the patient’s response. An anticholinergic agent (e.g., atropine or glycopyrrolate) should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. TOF monitoring alone should not be relied upon to determine the adequacy of reversal of neuromuscular blockade. Satisfactory recovery should be judged by the patient's ability to maintain a patent airway, adequacy of ventilation, and skeletal muscle tone. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended dose range of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg administered as an intravenous bolus. A dose less than 0.04 mg/kg is recommended for reversal of the effect of NMBAs with shorter half-lives (e.g., rocuronium), or when the first twitch response to the TOF stimulus is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present. A dose of 0.07 mg/kg is recommended for the reversal of the effect of NMBAs with longer half-lives (e.g., vecuronium or pancuronium), or when first twitch response is not substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or if there is need for more rapid recovery. Additional doses may be required. The recommended maximum total dose is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg, whichever is less. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered to pediatric patients. Pediatric patients require Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection doses similar to those for adult patients. 2.4 Concomitant or Pre-Administration of Anticholinergic Agents An anticholinergic agent (e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate) should be administered intravenously several minutes prior to or with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration using separate syringes. For bradycardic patients, the anticholinergic agent should be administered prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection. 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Neostigmine should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. Prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration and up until complete recovery of normal ventilation, the patient should be well ventilated and a patent airway maintained. Use a peripheral nerve stimulator capable of delivering a train-of-four (TOF) stimulus to evaluate the extent of recovery of neuromuscular function, and to determine the time of the first dose and the need for additional doses of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection. Prior to the administration of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, there must be a twitch response to the first stimulus in the TOF of at least 10% of its baseline level (i.e., the response prior to NMBA administration). Dose selection should be based on the extent of spontaneous recovery at time of injection, half-life of the neuromuscular blocking agent (NMBA) to be reversed, and need for rapid NMBA reversal. Patients should continue to be monitored for adequacy of reversal of the effect of NMBAs for a period of time that would assure full recovery based on the patient’s medical condition and the pharmacokinetics of neostigmine and the NMBA used. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered by intravenous bolus injection. Additional, carefully adjusted bolus doses are administered according to the patient’s response. An anticholinergic agent (e.g., atropine or glycopyrrolate) should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. TOF monitoring alone should not be relied upon to determine the adequacy of reversal of neuromuscular blockade. Satisfactory recovery should be judged by the patient's ability to maintain a patent airway, adequacy of ventilation, and skeletal muscle tone. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended dose range of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg administered as an intravenous bolus. A dose less than 0.04 mg/kg is recommended for reversal of the effect of NMBAs with shorter half-lives (e.g., rocuronium), or when the first twitch response to the TOF stimulus is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present. A dose of 0.07 mg/kg is recommended for the reversal of the effect of NMBAs with longer half-lives (e.g., vecuronium or pancuronium), or when first twitch response is not substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or if there is need for more rapid recovery. Additional doses may be required. The recommended maximum total dose is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg, whichever is less. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered to pediatric patients. Pediatric patients require Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection doses similar to those for adult patients. 2.4 Concomitant or Pre-Administration of Anticholinergic Agents An anticholinergic agent (e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate) should be administered intravenously several minutes prior to or with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration using separate syringes. For bradycardic patients, the anticholinergic agent should be administered prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP is available in 10 mL multiple dose amber glass vials containing a clear, colorless solution. Product Code Unit of Sale Strength Each 410310 NDC 63323-413-10 Unit of 10 5 mg per 10 mL (0.5 mg per mL) NDC 63323-413-01 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial RF410510 NDC 65219-811-10 Unit of 10 10 mg per10 mL (1 mg per mL) NDC 65219-811-01 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial This product contains an RFID. 410510 NDC 63323-415-10 Unit of 10 10 mg per10 mL (1 mg per mL) NDC 63323-415-01 10 mL Multiple Dose Vial Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature] and protect from light. Store vials in tray until ready for use. This container closure is not made with natural rubber latex.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 088f96eb-20b8-48f8-ac83-329f75a44ce1
