Name: Nivolumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OPDIVO QVANTIG is a combination of nivolumab, a programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1)-blocking antibody, and hyaluronidase, an endoglycosidase, indicated for the treatment of: Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) • adult patients with intermediate or poor risk advanced RCC, as a first-line treatment following combination treatment with intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab. (1.1) • Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. • adult patients with advanced RCC, as a first-line treatment in combination with cabozantinib. (1.1) • adult patients with advanced RCC who have received prior anti-angiogenic therapy. ( 1.1 ) Melanoma • adult patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. (1.2) • adult patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma following combination treatment with intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab. (1.2) • Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma. • for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with completely resected Stage IIB, Stage IIC, Stage III, or Stage IV melanoma. (1.3) Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) • adult patients with resectable (tumors ≥4 cm or node positive) NSCLC in the neoadjuvant setting, in combination with platinum-doublet chemotherapy. (1.4) • adult patients with resectable (tumors ≥4 cm or node positive) NSCLC and no known EGFR mutations or ALK rearrangements, for neoadjuvant treatment, in combination with platinum-doublet chemotherapy, followed by OPDIVO QVANTIG monotherapy as adjuvant treatment after surgery. (1.5) • adult patients with metastatic NSCLC and progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations should have disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations prior to receiving OPDIVO QVANTIG. (1.6) • Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of metastatic NSCLC. Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN) • adult patients with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN with disease progression on or after a platinum-based therapy. (1.7) Urothelial Carcinoma (UC) • adjuvant treatment of adult patients with UC who are at high risk of recurrence after undergoing radical resection of UC. (1.8) • adult patients with unresectable or metastatic urothelial carcinoma, as first-line treatment in combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine. (1.8) • adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic UC who: • have disease progression during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy. • have disease progression within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy. (1.8) Colorectal Cancer • adult patients with MSI-H or dMMR metastatic CRC that has progressed following treatment with a fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan, as monotherapy or as monotherapy following combination treatment with intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab. a (1.9) • Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of MSI-H or dMMR metastatic CRC. Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) • adult patients with HCC previously treated with sorafenib and following combination treatment with intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab. a (1.10) • Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of HCC. Esophageal Cancer • adult patients with completely resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer with residual pathologic disease, who have received neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT). (1.11) • adult patients with unresectable advanced or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) as first-line treatment in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy whose tumors express PD-L1 (≥1). (1.11) • Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced or metastatic ESCC. • adult patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic ESCC after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based chemotherapy. (1.11) Gastric Cancer, Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer, and Esophageal Adenocarcinoma • adult patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer, and esophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 (≥1) in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy. (1.12) a This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. 1.1 Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma OPDIVO QVANTIG™, as monotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with intermediate or poor risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) following treatment with intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab combination therapy. Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. OPDIVO QVANTIG, in combination with cabozantinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC. OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC who have received prior anti-angiogenic therapy. 1.2 Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma following treatment with intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab combination therapy. Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma. 1.3 Adjuvant Treatment of Melanoma OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with completely resected Stage IIB, Stage IIC, Stage III, or Stage IV melanoma. 1.4 Neoadjuvant Treatment of Resectable Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer OPDIVO QVANTIG, in combination with platinum-doublet chemotherapy, is indicated as neoadjuvant treatment of adult patients with resectable (tumors ≥4 cm or node positive) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 1.5 Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Treatment of Resectable Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer OPDIVO QVANTIG, in combination with platinum-doublet chemotherapy, is indicated for the neoadjuvant treatment of adult patients with resectable (tumors ≥4 cm or node positive) NSCLC and no known epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) rearrangements, followed by OPDIVO QVANTIG as monotherapy in the adjuvant setting after surgical resection. 1.6 Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations should have disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations prior to receiving OPDIVO QVANTIG. Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of metastatic NSCLC. 1.7 Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) with disease progression on or after platinum-based therapy. 1.8 Urothelial Carcinoma OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with urothelial carcinoma (UC) who are at high risk of recurrence after undergoing radical resection of UC. OPDIVO QVANTIG, in combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic UC. OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic UC who: • have disease progression during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy. • have disease progression within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy. 1.9 Microsatellite Instability-High or Mismatch Repair Deficient Metastatic Colorectal Cancer OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy or as monotherapy following treatment with intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab combination therapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) metastatic CRC that has progressed following treatment with a fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan. Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of MSI-H or dMMR metastatic CRC. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response [see Clinical Studies (14.9) ] . Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. 1.10 Hepatocellular Carcinoma OPDIVO QVANTIG, as monotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have been previously treated with sorafenib and following treatment with intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab. Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of patients with HCC. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration of response [see Clinical Studies (14.10) ] . Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in the confirmatory trials. 1.11 Esophageal Cancer OPDIVO QVANTIG as monotherapy, is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of completely resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer with residual pathologic disease in adult patients who have received neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT). OPDIVO QVANTIG, in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable advanced or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) whose tumors express PD-L1 (≥1) [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . Limitations of Use: OPDIVO QVANTIG is not indicated in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of patients with unresectable advanced or metastatic ESCC. OPDIVO QVANTIG as monotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent, or metastatic ESCC after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based chemotherapy. 1.12 Gastric Cancer, Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer, and Esophageal Adenocarcinoma OPDIVO QVANTIG, in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer, and esophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 (≥1) [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • OPDIVO QVANTIG has different dosage and administration instructions than intravenous nivolumab products. • OPDIVO QVANTIG is for subcutaneous use only in the abdomen or thigh. • OPDIVO QVANTIG is to be administered by a healthcare professional only. (2.1) OPDIVO QVANTIG is for subcutaneous use only. • Administer by subcutaneous injection over 3-5 minutes. (2.1) • Renal cell carcinoma • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks administered in combination with cabozantinib 40 mg once daily without food. (2.3) • Melanoma • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • Neoadjuvant treatment of resectable (tumors ≥4 cm or node positive) non-small cell lung cancer • 900 mg/15,000 units with platinum-doublet chemotherapy on the same day every 3 weeks for 3 cycles. (2.3) • Neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer • 900 mg/15,000 units with platinum-doublet chemotherapy on the same day every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles, then continued as single-agent OPDIVO QVANTIG 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks after surgery for up to 13 cycles (~1 year). (2.3) • Metastatic non-small cell lung cancer • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • Urothelial carcinoma • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • First-line unresectable or metastatic urothelial carcinoma • 900 mg/15,000 units every 3 weeks with cisplatin and gemcitabine on the same day for up to 6 cycles, then 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • Colorectal cancer • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • Hepatocellular carcinoma • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • Esophageal cancer • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks. (2.3) • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg/20,000 units every 4 weeks administered in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy. (2.3) • Gastric Cancer, Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer, and Esophageal Adenocarcinoma • 600 mg/10,000 units every 2 weeks in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy every 2 weeks. (2.3) • 900 mg/15,000 units every 3 weeks with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy every 3 weeks. (2.3) • See full Prescribing Information for preparation and administration instructions and dosage modifications for adverse reactions. 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information OPDIVO QVANTIG has different dosage and administration instructions than intravenously administered nivolumab products [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. OPDIVO QVANTIG is for subcutaneous use only in the abdomen or thigh. Do not administer intravenously. OPDIVO QVANTIG is to be administered by a healthcare professional only. Adult patients currently receiving intravenous nivolumab as a single agent, or in combination with chemotherapy or cabozantinib, may switch to subcutaneous OPDIVO QVANTIG at their next scheduled dose. 2.2 Patient Selection Esophageal Cancer Select patients with unresectable advanced or metastatic ESCC for treatment with OPDIVO QVANTIG in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy based on PD-L1 expression [see Clinical Studies (14.11) ] . • An FDA-approved companion diagnostic for the detection of PD-L1 expression in patients with advanced or metastatic ESCC is not available. Gastric Cancer, Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer, and Esophageal Adenocarcinoma Select patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer, and esophageal adenocarcinoma for treatment with OPDIVO QVANTIG in combination with fluoropyrimidine-and platinum-containing chemotherapy based on PD-L1 expression [see Clinical Studies (14.12) ] . • An FDA-approved companion diagnostic for the detection of PD-L1 expression in patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer, and esophageal adenocarcinoma is not available. 2.3 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosages of OPDIVO QVANTIG as monotherapy agent are presented in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for OPDIVO QVANTIG as Monotherapy † Dosing recommendations for both monotherapy or following intravenous nivolumab and ipilimumab combination therapy. * Administer over 3-5 minutes. Indication Recommended OPDIVO QVANTIG Dosage Duration of Therapy Advanced renal cell carcinoma† 600 mg nivolumab and 10,000 units hyaluronidase* every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg nivolumab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase* every 4 weeks Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity Unresectable or metastatic melanoma† Metastatic non-small cell lung cancer Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck Locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma Microsatellite instability-high or mismatch repair deficient metastatic colorectal cancer† Hepatocellular carcinoma† Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 600 mg nivolumab and 10,000 units hyaluronidase* every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg nivolumab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase* every 4 weeks Until disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity for up to 1 year Adjuvant treatment of urothelial carcinoma Adjuvant treatment of resected esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer The recommended dosages of OPDIVO QVANTIG in combination with other therapeutic agents are presented in Table 2. Refer to the respective Prescribing Information for each therapeutic agent administered in combination with OPDIVO QVANTIG for the recommended dosage information, as appropriate. Table 2: Recommended Dosages for OPDIVO QVANTIG in Combination with Other Therapeutic Agents * Administer over 3-5 minutes. Indication Recommended OPDIVO QVANTIG Dosage Duration of Therapy Advanced renal cell carcinoma 600 mg nivolumab and 10,000 units hyaluronidase* every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg nivolumab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase* every 4 weeks Administer OPDIVO QVANTIG in combination with cabozantinib 40 mg orally once daily without food OPDIVO QVANTIG: Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years Cabozantinib: Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity Neoadjuvant treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer 900 mg nivolumab and 15,000 units hyaluronidase* with platinum-doublet chemotherapy on the same day every 3 weeks In combination with platinum-doublet chemotherapy for 3 cycles Neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer Neoadjuvant: 900 mg nivolumab and 15,000 units hyaluronidase* with platinum-doublet chemotherapy on the same day every 3 weeks Neoadjuvant: in combination with platinum-doublet chemotherapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, for up to 4 cycles Adjuvant: 1,200 mg nivolumab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase* every 4 weeks Adjuvant: following neoadjuvant therapy and surgery, administer as a single agent until disease progression, recurrence, or unacceptable toxicity, for up to 13 cycles (up to 1 year) First-line unresectable or metastatic urothelial carcinoma 900 mg nivolumab and 15,000 units hyaluronidase* every 3 weeks Administer OPDIVO QVANTIG in combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine on the same day every 3 weeks In combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine for up to 6 cycles 600 mg nivolumab and 10,000 units hyaluronidase* every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg nivolumab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase* every 4 weeks After completing up to 6 cycles of combination therapy, administer as single agent until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years from first dose Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma 600 mg nivolumab and 10,000 units hyaluronidase* every 2 weeks or 1,200 mg nivolumab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase* every 4 weeks Administer OPDIVO QVANTIG in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years Chemotherapy: Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity Gastric cancer, gastroesophageal junction cancer, and esophageal adenocarcinoma 600 mg nivolumab and 10,000 units hyaluronidase* with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy every 2 weeks or 900 mg nivolumab and 15,000 units hyaluronidase* with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy every 3 weeks OPDIVO QVANTIG: Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 2 years Chemotherapy: Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity 2.4 Dosage Modifications No dose reduction for OPDIVO QVANTIG is recommended. In general, withhold OPDIVO QVANTIG for severe (Grade 3) immune-mediated adverse reactions. Permanently discontinue OPDIVO QVANTIG for life-threatening (Grade 4) immune-mediated adverse reactions, recurrent severe (Grade 3) immune-mediated reactions that require systemic immunosuppressive treatment, or an inability to reduce corticosteroid dose to 10 mg or less of prednisone or equivalent per day within 12 weeks of initiating steroids. Dosage modifications for OPDIVO QVANTIG or OPDIVO QVANTIG in combination with other anti-cancer agents for adverse reactions that require management different from these general guidelines are summarized in Table 3 and Table 4. Table 3: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions a Resume in patients with complete or partial resolution (Grade 0 to 1) after corticosteroid taper. Permanently discontinue if no complete or partial resolution within 12 weeks of last dose or inability to reduce prednisone to 10 mg per day (or equivalent) or less within 12 weeks of initiating steroids. b If AST and ALT are less than or equal to ULN at baseline, withhold or permanently discontinue OPDIVO QVANTIG based on recommendations for hepatitis with no liver involvement. c Depending on clinical severity, consider withholding for Grade 2 endocrinopathy until symptom improvement with hormone replacement. Resume once acute symptoms have resolved. ALT = alanine aminotransferase, AST = aspartate aminotransferase, DRESS = Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms, SJS = Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, TEN = toxic epidermal necrolysis, ULN = upper limit of normal Adverse Reaction Severity Dosage Modification Immune-Mediated Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Pneumonitis Grade 2 Withhold a Grade 3 or 4 Permanently discontinue Colitis For colitis in patients treated with combination therapy with ipilimumab, see Table 4. Grade 2 or 3 Withhold a Grade 4 Permanently discontinue Hepatitis with no tumor involvement of the liver For liver enzyme elevations in patients treated with combination therapy with cabozantinib, see Table 4. AST/ALT increases to >3 and ≤8 times ULN or Total bilirubin increases to >1.5 and ≤3 times ULN. Withhold a AST or ALT increases to >8 times ULN or Total bilirubin increases to >3 times ULN. Permanently discontinue Hepatitis with tumor involvement of the liver b Baseline AST/ALT is >1 and ≤3 times ULN and increases to >5 and ≤10 times ULN or Baseline AST/ALT is >3 and ≤5 times ULN and increases to >8 and ≤10 times ULN. Withhold a AST/ALT increases to >10 times ULN or Total bilirubin increases to >3 times ULN. Permanently discontinue Endocrinopathies c Grade 3 or 4 Withhold until clinically stable or permanently discontinue depending on severity Nephritis with Renal Dysfunction Grade 2 or 3 increased blood creatinine Withhold a Grade 4 increased blood creatinine Permanently discontinue Exfoliative Dermatologic Conditions Suspected SJS, TEN, or DRESS Withhold Confirmed SJS, TEN, or DRESS Permanently discontinue Myocarditis Grades 2, 3, or 4 Permanently discontinue Neurological Toxicities Grade 2 Withhold a Grade 3 or 4 Permanently discontinue Table 4: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions in Patients Treated with Combination Therapy a Consider corticosteroid therapy for hepatic adverse reactions if OPDIVO QVANTIG is withheld or discontinued when administered in combination with cabozantinib. b After recovery, rechallenge with one or both of OPDIVO QVANTIG and cabozantinib may be considered. If rechallenging with cabozantinib with or without OPDIVO QVANTIG, refer to cabozantinib Prescribing Information. Treatment Adverse Reaction Severity Dosage Modification OPDIVO QVANTIG in combination with cabozantinib Liver enzyme elevations ALT or AST >3 times ULN but ≤10 times ULN with concurrent total bilirubin <2 times ULN Withhold a both OPDIVO QVANTIG and cabozantinib until adverse reactions recover b to Grades 0-1 ALT or AST >10 times ULN or >3 times ULN with concurrent total bilirubin ≥2 times ULN Permanently discontinue a both OPDIVO QVANTIG and cabozantinib 2.5 Preparation and Administration To prevent medication errors, check the vial labels to ensure that the drug being prepared and administered is OPDIVO QVANTIG for subcutaneous use and NOT intravenous nivolumab. Do NOT administer OPDIVO QVANTIG intravenously. OPDIVO QVANTIG should be administered by a healthcare professional. Each OPDIVO QVANTIG vial is for one-time use only. It is a ready-to-use solution for injection. It should not be diluted. Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. OPDIVO QVANTIG is a clear to opalescent, colorless to yellow solution. Discard if the solution is discolored or contains extraneous particulate matter other than a few translucent-to-white particles. Do not shake. Preparation No incompatibilities were observed between OPDIVO QVANTIG and polypropylene and polycarbonate syringes, or between OPDIVO QVANTIG and polyethylene, polyurethane, polyvinyl chloride, and fluorinated ethylene propylene subcutaneous administration sets. A syringe and a transfer needle are needed to withdraw OPDIVO QVANTIG solution from the vial. OPDIVO QVANTIG may be injected subcutaneously using a 23G-25G (3/8”-5/8”) hypodermic injection needle or subcutaneous administration set (eg., winged/butterfly). • 600 mg nivolumab and 10,000 units hyaluronidase ∘ Allow 1 OPDIVO QVANTIG vial to reach room temperature, then withdraw 5 mL of OPDIVO QVANTIG into the syringe. • 900 mg nivolumab and 15,000 units hyaluronidase ∘ Allow 2 OPDIVO QVANTIG vials to reach room temperature, then withdraw 5 mL from one vial and 2.5 mL from the other vial, for a total volume of 7.5 mL of OPDIVO QVANTIG into a single syringe. • 1,200 mg nivolumab and 20,000 units hyaluronidase ∘ Allow 2 OPDIVO QVANTIG vials to reach room temperature, then withdraw 10 mL of OPDIVO QVANTIG into a single syringe. Select the appropriate syringe label provided in the carton that matches the prescribed dose and apply to the prepared syringe. Discard partially used or empty vials of OPDIVO QVANTIG. If the dose is not to be used immediately, attach a tip cap to the syringe prior to storage. To avoid clogging of the hypodermic injection needle, attach a 23G-25G (3/8”-5/8”) hypodermic injection needle to the syringe immediately prior to administration. Storage in Syringe Once withdrawn into the syringe, OPDIVO QVANTIG should be used immediately. If not used immediately, store the syringe: • In the refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F), protected from light for up to 72 hours; do not freeze, or • At room temperature 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) for up to 8 hours. Storage at room temperature for this duration does not require protection from light. • Discard if storage time exceeds these limits. • If stored in the refrigerator, allow the solution to come to room temperature before administration. Administration • Administer the full contents of the syringe into the subcutaneous tissue of 1 of the 4 quadrants of the abdomen, or thigh over a period of 3 to 5 minutes. • Alternate injection sites across the 4 quadrants of the abdomen or thighs for successive injections. Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, red, or bruised, or areas where there are scars or moles. If the administration of OPDIVO QVANTIG is interrupted, continue administering at the same site, or at an alternate site. • During treatment with OPDIVO QVANTIG, do not administer other subcutaneous medications at the same site used for OPDIVO QVANTIG.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING OPDIVO QVANTIG™ (nivolumab and hyaluronidase-nvhy) injection is a sterile, preservative-free, clear to opalescent and colorless to yellow solution for subcutaneous use. It is supplied as an individually packaged single-dose vial providing 600 mg nivolumab and 10,000 units hyaluronidase per 5 mL (120 mg/ 2,000 units per mL) (NDC-0003-6120-01). Store OPDIVO QVANTIG vials in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in the original carton to protect from light. Do not freeze or shake.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 7f8c38fa-42f4-4387-9e8c-7a1c66855d8b
