Name: Olanzapine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olanzapine is an atypical antipsychotic indicated: As oral formulation for the: Treatment of schizophrenia. ( 1.1 ) Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia: two 6-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.1 ) Adolescents (ages 13-17): Efficacy was established in one 6-week trial in patients with schizophrenia ( 14.1 ). The increased potential (in adolescents compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia may lead clinicians to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents. ( 1.1 ) Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: two 3- to 4-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.2 ) Adolescents (ages 13-17): Efficacy was established in one 3-week trial in patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( 14.2 ). The increased potential (in adolescents compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia may lead clinicians to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents. ( 1.2 ) Medication therapy for pediatric patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder should be undertaken only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation and with careful consideration of the potential risks. ( 1.3 ) Adjunct to valproate or lithium in the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) Efficacy was established in two 6-week clinical trials in adults ( 14.2 ). Maintenance efficacy has not been systematically evaluated. As Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination for the: Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.5 ) Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination); refer to the product label for Symbyax. Treatment of treatment resistant depression. ( 1.6 ) Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination) in adults; refer to the product label for Symbyax. 1.1 Schizophrenia Oral olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in adult patients with schizophrenia: two 6-week trials and one maintenance trial. In adolescent patients with schizophrenia (ages 13-17), efficacy was established in one 6-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . When deciding among the alternative treatments available for adolescents, clinicians should consider the increased potential (in adolescents as compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ] . 1.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Monotherapy — Oral olanzapine is indicated for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in adult patients with manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: two 3- to 4-week trials and one monotherapy maintenance trial. In adolescent patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (ages 13-17), efficacy was established in one 3-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . When deciding among the alternative treatments available for adolescents, clinicians should consider the increased potential (in adolescents as compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ] . Adjunctive Therapy to Lithium or Valproate — Oral olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as an adjunct to lithium or valproate. Efficacy was established in two 6-week clinical trials in adults. The effectiveness of adjunctive therapy for longer-term use has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Special Considerations in Treating Pediatric Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder are serious mental disorders; however, diagnosis can be challenging. For pediatric schizophrenia, symptom profiles can be variable, and for bipolar I disorder, pediatric patients may have variable patterns of periodicity of manic or mixed symptoms. It is recommended that medication therapy for pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder be initiated only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation has been performed and careful consideration given to the risks associated with medication treatment. Medication treatment for both pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder should be part of a total treatment program that often includes psychological, educational and social interventions. 1.5 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder Oral olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination is indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, based on clinical studies. When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 1.6 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression Oral olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination is indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode), based on clinical studies in adult patients. When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 5 mg to 10 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 10 mg or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. ( 2.1 ) Olanzapine may be given without regard to meals. ( 2.1 ) Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder or treatment resistant depression. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. Further dosage adjustments, if indicated, should generally occur at intervals of not less than 1 week, since steady state for olanzapine would not be achieved for approximately 1 week in the typical patient. When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 5 mg QD are recommended. Efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a dose range of 10 mg/day to 15 mg/day in clinical trials. However, doses above 10 mg/day were not demonstrated to be more efficacious than the 10 mg/day dose. An increase to a dose greater than the target dose of 10 mg/day (i.e., to a dose of 15 mg/day or greater) is recommended only after clinical assessment. Olanzapine is not indicated for use in doses above 20 mg/day. Dosing in Special Populations — The recommended starting dose is 5 mg in patients who are debilitated, who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, who otherwise exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine (e.g., nonsmoking female patients ≥65 years of age), or who may be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. Maintenance Treatment — The effectiveness of oral olanzapine, 10 mg/day to 20 mg/day, in maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable on olanzapine for approximately 8 weeks and were then followed for relapse has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . The healthcare provider who elects to use olanzapine for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Adolescents Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals with a recommended starting dose of 2.5 mg or 5 mg, with a target dose of 10 mg/day. Efficacy in adolescents with schizophrenia was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 mg/day to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 12.5 mg/day (mean dose of 11.1 mg/day). When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 2.5 mg or 5 mg are recommended. The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in the adolescent population has not been systematically evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. Thus, it is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Adults Dose Selection for Monotherapy — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 10 mg or 15 mg. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should generally occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours, reflecting the procedures in the placebo-controlled trials. When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 5 mg QD are recommended. Short-term (3-4 weeks) antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials. The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Maintenance Monotherapy — The benefit of maintaining bipolar I patients on monotherapy with oral olanzapine at a dose of 5 mg/day to 20 mg/day, after achieving a responder status for an average duration of 2 weeks, was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . The healthcare provider who elects to use olanzapine for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Dose Selection for Adjunctive Treatment — When administered as adjunctive treatment to lithium or valproate, oral olanzapine dosing should generally begin with 10 mg once-a-day without regard to meals. Antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials. Adolescents Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals with a recommended starting dose of 2.5 mg or 5 mg, with a target dose of 10 mg/day. Efficacy in adolescents with bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 mg/day to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 10.7 mg/day (mean dose of 8.9 mg/day). When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 2.5 mg or 5 mg are recommended. The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder in the adolescent population has not been evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. Thus, it is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.3 Administration of Olanzapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets Peel back foil on blister. Do not push tablet through foil. Immediately upon opening the blister or the bottle, using dry hands, remove tablet and place entire olanzapine orally disintegrating tablet in the mouth. Tablet disintegration occurs rapidly in saliva so it can be easily swallowed with or without liquid. 2.5 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Adults Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 mg to 12.5 mg and fluoxetine 20 mg to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Children and Adolescents (10-17 years of age) Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability. Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in pediatric clinical studies. Safety and efficacy of olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of olanzapine and fluoxetine versus Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax a and the Combination of Olanzapine and Fluoxetine a Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCl) is a fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine. For Use in Combination Symbyax Olanzapine Fluoxetine (mg/day) (mg/day) (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that bipolar I disorder, including the depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. The healthcare provider should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy. Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 2.6 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 mg to 20 mg and fluoxetine 20 mg to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. Safety and efficacy of olanzapine in combination with fluoxetine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. Table 1 above demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of olanzapine and fluoxetine versus Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in adult patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode) is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. The healthcare provider should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy. Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosing in Special Populations The starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 mg to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg should be used for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Dosing modification may be necessary in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow metabolism. When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. Olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients under 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets, USP are yellow or almost-yellow round tablets supplied as follows: 5 mg tablets: (debossed with “L32” on one side and blank on the other side) Bottles of 30 (NDC 0527-3161-32) 10 mg tablets: (debossed with “L33” on one side and blank on the other side) Bottles of 30 (NDC 0527-3162-32) 15 mg tablets: (debossed with “L35” on one side and blank on the other side) Bottles of 30 (NDC 0527-3163-32) 20 mg tablets: (debossed with “L37” on one side and blank on the other side) Bottles of 30 (NDC 0527-3164-32) 16.2 Storage and Handling Store olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets, USP at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. The USP defines controlled room temperature as a temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25°C; and that allows for excursions between 15° and 30°C (59° and 86°F) that are experienced in pharmacies, hospitals, and warehouses. Protect olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets from light and moisture. 16.1 How Supplied Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets, USP are yellow or almost-yellow round tablets supplied as follows: 5 mg tablets: (debossed with “L32” on one side and blank on the other side) Bottles of 30 (NDC 0527-3161-32) 10 mg tablets: (debossed with “L33” on one side and blank on the other side) Bottles of 30 (NDC 0527-3162-32) 15 mg tablets: (debossed with “L35” on one side and blank on the other side) Bottles of 30 (NDC 0527-3163-32) 20 mg tablets: (debossed with “L37” on one side and blank on the other side) Bottles of 30 (NDC 0527-3164-32)

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 002dd00f-7946-ea4f-e063-6294a90a5916
