Name: Olmesartan

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide may be used alone, or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is 40/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. Dose can be titrated up to 40 /25 mg if necessary. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is 20/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with HCT monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide. Dose can be titrated up to 40 /25 mg if necessary. Patients titrated to the individual components (olmesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may instead receive the corresponding dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide. Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy, 40/12.5 mg ( 2 ) Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy, 20/12.5 mg ( 2 ) Adjust dose after 2 to 4 weeks, as needed, to a maximum of 40 mg / 25 mg olmesartan / hydrochlorothiazide ( 2 )

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is supplied as follows: Olm/HCTZ Shape Color Debossing Side 1 Side 2 20/12.5 mg Round Reddish-yellow Sankyo C22 40/12.5 mg Oval Reddish-yellow Sankyo C23 40/25 mg Oval Pink Sankyo C25 Tablets are packaged as follows: 20/12.5 mg 40/12.5 mg 40/25 mg Bottle of 90 tablets 42291-924-90 42291-925-90 42291-926-90 Storage Store at 20-25ºC (68-77ºF) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 017bc6a3-5b3d-2381-e063-6394a90abece
