Name: Opium

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Belladonna and opium suppositories are indicated for the management of ureteral spasm pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ], reserve belladonna and opium suppositories for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products]: • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesic Belladonna and opium suppositories are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of ureteral spasm pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], reserve belladonna and opium suppositories for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products]: • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. (2.1) • Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, and prior analgesic experience, and risk factor for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1) • Initiate dosing with one suppository once or twice daily as needed for pain. (2.2) • Do not stop belladonna and opium suppositories abruptly in a physically dependent patient. (2.4) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with belladonna and opium suppositories and adjust the dosage accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.2 Dosing One belladonna and opium suppository rectally once or twice daily, not to exceed four doses daily or as recommended by the physician. Moisten finger and suppository with water before inserting. Absorption is dependent on body hydration and not on body temperature. Not recommended for use in children 12 years of age and under. Conversion from Other Opioids to Belladonna and Opium Suppositories There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of belladonna and opium suppositories. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour belladonna and opium suppositories dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour belladonna and opium suppositories dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Conversion from Belladonna and Opium suppositories to Extended-Release Opioid The relative bioavailability of belladonna and opium suppositories compared to extended-release opioid is unknown, so conversion to extended-release drug product must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.3 Maintenance of Therapy Continually reevaluate patients receiving belladonna and opium suppositories to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the belladonna and opium suppositories dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.4 Discontinuation of Belladonna and Opium Suppositories When a patient who has been taking belladonna and opium suppositories regularly and may be physically dependent no longer requires therapy with belladonna and opium suppositories, use a gradual downward titration of the dosage to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal. Do not stop belladonna and opium suppositories abruptly [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ].

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Belladonna (16.2 mg) and Opium (30 mg) suppositories are brown, bullet shaped suppositories. NDC 63629-8436-1: Carton of 4 suppositories Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. DO NOT REFRIGERATE. PROTECT FROM MOISTURE DURING STORAGE. Rx Only

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 088b9cd1-da68-4c34-8f09-62c2cde19e1f
