Name: Oxazepam

introduction: INDICATIONS Oxazepam capsules are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. Anxiety associated with depression is also responsive to oxazepam therapy. This product has been found particularly useful in the management of anxiety, tension, agitation and irritability in older patients. Alcoholics with acute tremulousness, inebriation, or with anxiety associated with alcohol withdrawal are responsive to therapy. The effectiveness of oxazepam in long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies. The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of the flexibility of this product and the range of emotional disturbances responsive to it, dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effects. Oxazepam Usual Dose Mild-to-moderate anxiety, with associated tension, irritability, agitation, or related symptoms of functional origin or secondary to organic disease. 10 to 15 mg, 3 or 4 times daily Severe anxiety syndromes, agitation, or anxiety associated with depression. 15 to 30 mg, 3 or 4 times daily Older patients with anxiety, tension, irritability and agitation. Initial dosage: 10 mg, 3 times daily. If necessary, increase cautiously to 15 mg, 3 or 4 times daily. Alcoholics with acute inebriation, tremulousness, or anxiety on withdrawal. 15 to 30 mg, 3 or 4 times daily This product is not indicated in pediatric patients under 6 years of age. Absolute dosage for pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age is not established. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Oxazepam To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue oxazepam or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly [see WARNINGS : Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Dependence ] .

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Oxazepam capsules, USP are available as follows: 10 mg — Each pink opaque gelatin #4 capsule printed with and 067 in black ink on both cap and body contains 10 mg of Oxazepam, USP. Capsules are supplied in unit dose packages of 100 (10 x 10) NDC 62584-812-01. 15 mg — Each red opaque gelatin #4 capsule printed with and 069 in black ink on both cap and body contains 15 mg of Oxazepam, USP. Capsules are supplied in unit dose packages of 100 (10 x 10) NDC 62584-813-01. 30 mg — Each maroon opaque gelatin #4 capsule printed with and 073 in blue ink on both cap and body contains 30 mg of Oxazepam, USP. Capsules are supplied in unit dose packages of 100 (10 x 10) NDC 62584-814-01. Store at 25ºC (77ºF); excursions permitted to 15ºC to 30ºC (59ºF to 86ºF). FOR YOUR PROTECTION: Do not use if blister is torn or broken. e563bf60-figure-02 e563bf60-figure-03 e563bf60-figure-04 WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids: Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including oxazepam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. If a decision is made to prescribe oxazepam concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of oxazepam than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking oxazepam, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when oxazepam is used with opioids. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined [see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ]. Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction: The use of benzodiazepines, including oxazepam, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Abuse ] . Before prescribing oxazepam and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of oxazepam, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of oxazepam along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Prescribe the lowest effective dosage; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. If a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue oxazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Oxazepam ] . Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had longer durations of use. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including oxazepam, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of oxazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Dependence ]. Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Dependence ] . As with other CNS-acting drugs, patients should be cautioned against driving automobiles or operating dangerous machinery until it is known that they do not become drowsy or dizzy on oxazepam therapy. Patients should be warned that the effects of alcohol or other CNS-depressant drugs may be additive to those of Oxazepam, possibly requiring adjustment of dosage or elimination of such agents. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of oxazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate [see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ]. Monitor neonates exposed to oxazepam during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to oxazepam during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 03440821-831c-4085-98f9-faa88e98c503
