Name: Oxymorphone

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the management of acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use: Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] , and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use: Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. (2.1) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1, 5) Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. (2.1) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1, 5.1) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. (2.1, 5.2) Initiate treatment with oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets in a dosing range of 10 mg to 20 mg every four to six hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets. (2.3, 5) Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets should be taken on an empty stomach, at least one hour prior to or two hours after eating. (2.1) Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. (2.2, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Conversion to oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets: Follow recommendations for conversion from other opioids or parenteral oxymorphone. (2.3) Periodically reassess patients receiving oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. (2.8) Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.9, 5.14) Mild Hepatic Impairment : Initiate treatment with 5 mg and titrate slowly. Monitor for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression. (2.4) Renal Impairment : Initiate treatment with 5 mg and titrate slowly. Monitor for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression. (2.5) Geriatric Patients : Initiate dosing with 5 mg, titrate slowly, and monitor for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression. (2.6) CNS Depressants : Initiate treatment with 1/3 to 1/2 the recommended starting dose, consider using a lower dosage of the concomitant CNS depressant, and monitor closely. (2.7, 5.7, 7) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets should be administered on an empty stomach, at least one hour prior to or two hours after eating [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. To avoid medication errors, prescribers and pharmacists must be aware that oxymorphone is available as both immediate-release 5 mg and 10 mg tablets and extended-release 5 mg and 10 mg tablets [see Dosage Forms and Strengths (3)]. 2.2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)] . Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. 2.3 Initial Dosage Use of Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets in a dosing range of 10 mg to 20 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets. Do not initiate treatment with doses higher than 20 mg because of the potential serious adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Conversion from Other Opioids to Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. For conversion from other opioids to oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets, physicians and other healthcare professionals are advised to refer to published relative potency information, keeping in mind that conversion ratios are only approximate. In general, it is safest to start oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets therapy by administering half of the calculated total daily dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets in 4 to 6 equally divided doses, every 4-6 hours. The initial dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets can be gradually adjusted until adequate pain relief and acceptable side effects have been achieved. Conversion from Parenteral Oxymorphone to Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Tablets Given oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets absolute oral bioavailability of approximately 10%, patients receiving parenteral oxymorphone may be converted to oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets by administering 10 times the patient’s total daily parenteral oxymorphone dose as oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets, in four or six equally divided doses (e.g., [IV dose x 10] divided by 4 or 6). For example, approximately 10 mg of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets four times daily may be required to provide pain relief equivalent to a total daily IM dose of 4 mg oxymorphone. Due to patient variability with regard to opioid analgesic response, upon conversion patients should be closely monitored to ensure adequate analgesia and to minimize side effects. Conversion from Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Tablets to Extended-Release Oxymorphone The relative bioavailability of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets compared to extended-release oxymorphone is unknown, so conversion to extended release oxymorphone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Mild Hepatic Impairment Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. Use oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets with caution in patients with mild hepatic impairment, starting with the lowest dose (e.g., 5 mg) and titrating slowly while carefully monitoring for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Use oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets with caution in patients with creatinine clearance rates less than 50 mL/min., starting with the lowest dose (e.g., 5 mg) and titrating slowly while carefully monitoring for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications in Geriatric Patients Exercise caution in the selection of the starting dose of oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets for an elderly patient by starting with the lowest dose (e.g., 5 mg) and titrate slowly while carefully monitoring for signs of respiratory and central nervous system depression [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 2.7 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use with Central Nervous System Depressants Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets, like all opioid analgesics, should be started at one-third to one-half of the usual dose in patients who are concurrently receiving other central nervous system (CNS) depressants including sedatives or hypnotics, general anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers, and alcohol, because respiratory depression, hypotension and profound sedation, coma or death may result [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Drug Interactions (7)]. When combined therapy with any of the above medications is considered, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced. 2.8 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.14)]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.9 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxymorphone Hydrochloride Tablets Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with comorbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)].

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets, USP are supplied as follows: 5 mg Tablet: White to off white round flat tablets de-bossed with ‘T 277’ on one side and plain on the other side. Bottles of 100 tablets with child-resistant closure NDC 31722-929-01 10 mg Tablet: Pink round flat tablets de-bossed with ‘T 278’ on one side and plain on the other side. Bottles of 100 tablets with child-resistant closure NDC 31722-930-01 Store at 20°C - 25°C (68° to 77°F); [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in tight container as defined in the USP, with a child-resistant closure (as required). Store oxymorphone hydrochloride tablets securely and dispose of properly [see Patient Counseling Information (17)] .

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 06af7dff-c261-4c03-9cd9-0605c42507fa
