Name: Palonosetron

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Palonosetron hydrochloride injection is indicated in adults for prevention of: acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (MEC). acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (HEC). postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) for up to 24 hours following surgery. Efficacy beyond 24 hours has not been demonstrated. As with other antiemetics, routine prophylaxis is not recommended in patients in whom there is little expectation that nausea and/or vomiting will occur postoperatively. In patients where nausea and vomiting must be avoided during the postoperative period, palonosetron hydrochloride injection is recommended even where the incidence of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting is low. Palonosetron hydrochloride injection is indicated in pediatric patients 1 month to less than 17 years of age for prevention of: acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. Palonosetron hydrochloride injection is a serotonin-3 (5-HT 3 ) receptor antagonist indicated in: Adults for prevention of: acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (MEC). ( 1 ) acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (HEC). ( 1 ) postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) for up to 24 hours following surgery. Efficacy beyond 24 hours has not been demonstrated ( 1 ) Pediatric patients aged 1 month to less than 17 years for prevention of: acute nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (HEC). ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting ( 2.1 ) *Note different dosing units in pediatrics Age Dose* Infusion Time Adults 0.25 mg as a single dose Infuse over 30 seconds beginning approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy Pediatrics (1 month to less than 17 years) 20 micrograms per kilogram (maximum 1.5 mg) as a single dose Infuse over 15 minutes beginning approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting ( 2.1 ) The recommended adult dosage is 0.075 mg as a single intravenous dose administered over 10 seconds immediately before the induction of anesthesia. 2.1 Recommended Dosage Prevention of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting The recommended dosage of palonosetron hydrochloride injection for prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with HEC and MEC in adults and associated with emetogenic chemotherapy, including HEC in pediatric patients 1 month to less than 17 years of age is shown in Table 1 . Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Chemotherapy in Adults and Pediatric Patients 1 Month to Less than 17 Years *Note different dosing units in pediatrics Age Dose* Infusion Time Adults 0.25 mg as a single dose Infuse over 30 seconds beginning approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy Pediatrics (1 month to less than 17 years) 20 micrograms per kilogram (max 1.5 mg) as a single dose Infuse over 15 minutes beginning approximately 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting The recommended dosage of palonosetron hydrochloride injection in adults for PONV is 0.075 mg administered as a single intravenous dose over 10 seconds immediately before the induction of anesthesia. 2.2 Instructions for Intravenous Administration Palonosetron hydrochloride injection is supplied ready for intravenous administration at a concentration of 0.05 mg per mL (50 mcg per mL). Do not mix palonosetron hydrochloride injection with other drugs. Flush the infusion line with normal saline before and after administration of palonosetron hydrochloride injection. Inspect palonosetron hydrochloride injection visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration. Discard unused portion.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Palonosetron hydrochloride injection is a sterile, clear and colorless solution supplied as follows: NDC Palonosetron Hydrochloride Injection (0.05 mg per mL) Package Factor 83634-777-05 0.25 mg per 5 mL Single-Dose Vial 1 vial per carton Storage Conditions Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted between 15° and 30°C (59° and 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Protect from freezing. Protect from light. Sterile, Nonpyrogenic, Preservative-free. The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0063b66a-a71b-473c-97b8-7c59f2a5b18e
