Name: Pantoprazole

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is indicated for treatment of: gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and a history of erosive esophagitis (EE) for up to 10 days in adults. pathological hypersecretory conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults. Limitations of Use The safety and effectiveness of Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection for the treatment of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have not been established in adult or pediatric patients. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.'s PROTONIX® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for treatment of: gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and a history of erosive esophagitis (EE) for up to 10 days in adults. ( 1 ) pathological hypersecretion conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use The safety and effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium for injection for the treatment of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have not been established in adult or pediatric patients. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GERD and a History of EE Adults: The recommended dosage is 40 mg once daily by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes) for up to 10 days. ( 2.1 ) Discontinue as soon as the patient is able to receive oral treatment. Switch to an appropriate oral medication within 10 days of starting pantoprazole sodium for injection. ( 2.1 ) Pathological Hypersecretion Conditions, Including ZE Syndrome The recommended adult dosage is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). ( 2.2 ) For information on how to adjust dosing for individual patient needs, see the full prescribing information. ( 2.2 ) When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. ( 2.2 ) Preparation and Administration Instructions See full prescribing information for preparation and administration instructions by indication. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for GERD Associated with a History of EE Adult Patients The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 40 mg once daily by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes) for up to 10 days. Discontinue pantoprazole sodium for injection as soon as the patient is able to tolerate oral treatment. Switch to an appropriate oral medication within 10 days of starting pantoprazole sodium for injection. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.'s PROTONIX® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole for injection is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). Adjust the frequency of dosing to individual patient needs based on acid output measurements. In those patients who need a higher dosage, 80 mg intravenously every 8 hours is expected to maintain acid output below 10 mEq/h. When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions for GERD Associated with a History of EE 15-Minute Intravenous Infusion for Adult Patients 1. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. 2. Dilute the resulting solution to a final concentration as described below: Adult patients : Further dilute with 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg per mL. 3. Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to and during administration. 4. Withdraw the dose of the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution for an adult dose. 6. Infuse intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes through a dedicated line or through a Y-site [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) ] . 7. Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Storage a. Store the reconstituted solution for up to 6 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to further dilution. b. Store the diluted solution at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) and must be used within 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. c. Do not freeze the reconstituted or diluted solution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection for Adult Patients 1. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg per mL. 2. Withdraw the dose of 40 mg of reconstituted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution. 3. Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to and during administration. 4. Administer intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes. 5. Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Storage Store the reconstituted solution for up to 24 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to intravenous infusion. Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.'s PROTONIX® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 15-Minute Intravenous Infusion Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Combine the contents of the two vials and dilute with 80 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection or Sodium Chloride Injection to a total volume of 100 mL with a final concentration of approximately 0.8 mg per mL. Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to and during administration. Administer intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes at a rate of approximately 7 mL/min. Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Storage The reconstituted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for up to 6 hours prior to further dilution. Once further diluted, the diluted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for up to 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. Do not freeze the reconstituted or diluted solution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg per mL. Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to and during administration. Administer the total volume from both vials intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes. Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature. Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. 2.5 Compatibility Information Administer pantoprazole sodium for injection intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y-site. When administering through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: o 5% Dextrose Injection o 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection Midazolam hydrochloride is incompatible with Y-site administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection. Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Stop administering pantoprazole sodium for injection immediately through a Y-site if precipitation or discoloration occurs.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is a white to off-white freeze-dried powder for reconstitution and dilution is supplied as follows: NDC Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection Package Factor 71288- 600 -92 40 mg of pantoprazole in a Single-Dose Vial 10 vials per carton Storage and Handling Store Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Protect from light. Discard unused portion. Sterile, Nonpyrogenic, Preservative-free. The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 014f9762-6948-46b7-8659-5c89f35ad8bf
