Name: Pegfilgrastim

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZIEXTENZO is a leukocyte growth factor indicated to decrease the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia, in patients with non-myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti-cancer drugs associated with a clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia. ( 1.1 ) Limitations of Use ZIEXTENZO is not indicated for the mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 1.1 Patients with Cancer Receiving Myelosuppressive Chemotherapy ZIEXTENZO is indicated to decrease the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia, in patients with non-myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti-cancer drugs associated with a clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Limitations of Use ZIEXTENZO is not indicated for the mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients with cancer receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy • 6 mg administered subcutaneously once per chemotherapy cycle. ( 2.1 ) • Do not administer between 14 days before and 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy. ( 2.1 ) • Use weight based dosing for pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg; refer to Table 1. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Patients with Cancer Receiving Myelosuppressive Chemotherapy The recommended dosage of ZIEXTENZO is a single subcutaneous injection of 6 mg administered once per chemotherapy cycle. For dosing in pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg, refer to Table 1. Do not administer ZIEXTENZO between 14 days before and 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy. 2.2 Administration ZIEXTENZO is administered subcutaneously via a single-dose prefilled syringe for manual use. Prior to use‚ remove the carton from the refrigerator and allow the ZIEXTENZO prefilled syringe to reach room temperature for a minimum of 15-30 minutes. Discard any prefilled syringe left at room temperature for greater than 120 hours. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. ZIEXTENZO is supplied as a clear and colorless to slightly yellowish solution. Do not administer ZIEXTENZO if discoloration or particulates are observed. The ZIEXTENZO syringe plunger stopper and needle cap are not made with natural rubber latex. Pediatric Patients weighing less than 45 kg The ZIEXTENZO prefilled syringe is not designed to allow for direct administration of doses less than 0.6 mL (6 mg). The syringe does not bear graduation marks, which are necessary to accurately measure doses of ZIEXTENZO less than 0.6 mL (6 mg) for direct administration to patients. Thus, the direct administration to patients requiring dosing of less than 0.6 mL (6 mg) is not recommended due to the potential for dosing errors. Refer to Table 1. Table 1. Dosing of ZIEXTENZO for pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg Body Weight ZIEXTENZO Dose Volume to Administer Less than 10 kg For pediatric patients weighing less than 10 kg, administer 0.1 mg/kg (0.01 mL/kg) of ZIEXTENZO. See below See below 10 - 20 kg 1.5 mg 0.15 mL 21 - 30 kg 2.5 mg 0.25 mL 31 - 44 kg 4 mg 0.4 mL

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING ZIEXTENZO single-dose prefilled syringe for manual use ZIEXTENZO injection is a clear, colorless to slightly yellowish solution supplied in a prefilled single-dose syringe for manual use containing 6 mg pegfilgrastim-bmez, supplied with a 29-gauge, 1/2-inch needle with an UltraSafe Passive TM Needle Guard. The ZIEXTENZO syringe plunger stopper and needle cap are not made with natural rubber latex. ZIEXTENZO is provided in a dispensing pack containing one sterile 6 mg/0.6 mL prefilled syringe (NDC 61314-866-02). ZIEXTENZO prefilled syringe does not bear graduation marks and is intended only to deliver the entire contents of the syringe (6 mg/0.6 mL) for direct administration. Use of the prefilled syringe is not recommended for direct administration for pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg who require doses that are less than the full contents of the syringe. Store refrigerated between 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C) in the carton to protect from light. Do not shake. Discard syringes stored at room temperature for more than 120 hours. Avoid freezing; if frozen, thaw in the refrigerator before administration. Discard syringe if frozen more than once.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 7dada041-6528-4acf-809c-62d271538c9a
