Name: Pegloticase

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KRYSTEXXA ® (pegloticase) is indicated, for the treatment of chronic gout in adult patients refractory to conventional therapy. Gout refractory to conventional therapy occurs in patients who have failed to normalize serum uric acid and whose signs and symptoms are inadequately controlled with xanthine oxidase inhibitors at the maximum medically appropriate dose or for whom these drugs are contraindicated. KRYSTEXXA ® (pegloticase) is a PEGylated uric acid specific enzyme indicated for the treatment of chronic gout in adult patients refractory to conventional therapy. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: KRYSTEXXA is not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: KRYSTEXXA is not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage is KRYSTEXXA 8 mg every two weeks given as an intravenous infusion, co-administered with weekly methotrexate 15 mg orally. KRYSTEXXA alone may be used in patients for whom methotrexate is contraindicated or not clinically appropriate. ( 2.2 ) Methotrexate with folic acid or folinic acid supplementation should be initiated at least 4 weeks prior to initiating, and throughout treatment with KRYSTEXXA. ( 2.2 ) Discontinue oral urate-lowering agents before starting KRYSTEXXA. ( 2.1 ) Monitor serum uric acid levels before each infusion. ( 2.1 ) Pre-medicate patients with antihistamines and corticosteroids. ( 2.1 , 5.1 , 5.2 ) Preparation and Administration Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus. ( 2.1 ) KRYSTEXXA injection is supplied as a Ready-to-Use (with hanger label) single-dose vial or a To-be-Diluted single-dose vial. ( 2.3 ) See full prescribing information for information on preparation and administration for each vial presentation. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Precautions Prior to Treatment It is recommended that before starting KRYSTEXXA patients discontinue oral urate-lowering medications and not institute therapy with oral urate-lowering agents while patients are on KRYSTEXXA therapy. Monitoring Therapy: The risk of infusion reactions, including anaphylaxis, is higher in patients who have lost therapeutic response. Monitor serum uric acid levels prior to each infusion and discontinue treatment if levels increase to above 6 mg/dL, particularly when 2 consecutive levels above 6 mg/dL are observed [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ]. Infusion Reaction Precautions KRYSTEXXA should be administered in a healthcare setting by healthcare providers prepared to manage infusion reactions, including anaphylaxis. Observe patients for an appropriate period of time after administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ]. Patients should receive pre-infusion medications (e.g., antihistamines, corticosteroids), to minimize the risk of infusion reactions, including anaphylaxis. If an infusion reaction occurs during the administration of KRYSTEXXA, the infusion may be slowed, or stopped and restarted at a slower rate, at the discretion of the physician. Since infusion reactions can occur after completion of infusion, observation of patients for approximately an hour post-infusion should be considered [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Administration Precautions Do not administer KRYSTEXXA as an intravenous push or bolus. KRYSTEXXA should only be administered by intravenous infusion. An infusion pump may be used for the Ready-to-Use vial. Gravity feed, syringe-type pump, or infusion pump may be used for the To-Be-Diluted vial [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage is KRYSTEXXA 8 mg given as an intravenous infusion every two weeks, co-administered with weekly oral methotrexate 15 mg and folic acid or folinic acid supplementation. KRYSTEXXA alone may be used in patients for whom methotrexate is contraindicated or not clinically appropriate. If co-administering with methotrexate, start weekly methotrexate and folic acid or folinic acid supplementation at least 4 weeks prior to initiating, and throughout treatment with KRYSTEXXA [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Refer to the Full Prescribing Information for methotrexate. The optimal treatment duration with KRYSTEXXA has not been established. 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions KRYSTEXXA injection is supplied as either a Ready-to-Use single-dose vial (with hanger label) or a To-be-Diluted single-dose vial. Ready-to-Use KRYSTEXXA 8 mg/50 mL (0.16 mg/mL) single-dose vial (with hanger label) Step 1: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use vial if either is present. Step 2: Allow the Ready-to-Use vial to reach room temperature at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). KRYSTEXXA in a vial should never be subjected to artificial heating (e.g., hot water, microwave). Unopened vial may be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature. Step 3: Use appropriate aseptic technique. Insert a vented intravenous set through the septum of the vial. Once the stopper is punctured, use immediately. Step 4: To administer, invert and hang the vial utilizing the built-in hanger label affixed to the bottom of the vial. Step 5: Administer as an intravenous infusion over a period of no less than 120 minutes using an infusion pump. After the entire contents of the vial have been administered, flush the injection line with Sodium Chloride Injection to ensure delivery of the required dose. To-be-Diluted KRYSTEXXA 8 mg/mL single-dose vial Step 1: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use vial if either is present. Step 2: Use appropriate aseptic technique. Withdraw 1 mL of KRYSTEXXA (To-be-Diluted) from the vial into a sterile syringe. Discard any unused portion of product remaining in the vial. Inject into a single 250 mL bag of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP for intravenous infusion. Do not mix or dilute with other drugs. Step 3: Gently invert the infusion bag containing the dilute KRYSTEXXA solution a number of times to ensure thorough mixing. Do not shake. Step 4: Before administration, allow the diluted solution of KRYSTEXXA to reach room temperature. KRYSTEXXA in a vial or in an intravenous infusion fluid should never be subjected to artificial heating (e.g., hot water, microwave). KRYSTEXXA diluted in infusion bags is stable for 4 hours at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) and at room temperature at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). However, it is recommended that diluted solutions be stored under refrigeration, not frozen, protected from light, and used within 4 hours of dilution [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. Step 5: Administer as an intravenous infusion over 120 minutes using gravity feed, syringe-type pump, or infusion pump.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied KRYSTEXXA (pegloticase) injection is supplied as a sterile, clear and colorless solution containing 8 mg of pegloticase as follows for intravenous infusion: One Ready-to-Use 8 mg/50 mL (0.16 mg/mL) single-dose vial (NDC 75987-058-01) One To-be-Diluted 8 mg/mL single-dose vial (NDC 75987-080-10) Storage and Handling Before the preparation for use, KRYSTEXXA must be stored in the carton and maintained at all times under refrigeration between 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). Protect from light. Do not shake or freeze. Do not use beyond the expiration date stamped.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 6e566303-d93a-4130-b764-25749829aa95
