Name: Pembrolizumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KEYTRUDA QLEX is a combination of pembrolizumab, a programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1)-blocking antibody, and berahyaluronidase alfa, an endoglycosidase, indicated: Melanoma for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. ( 1.1 ) for the adjuvant treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with Stage IIB, IIC, or III melanoma following complete resection. ( 1.1 ) Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) in combination with pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy, as first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC, with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations. ( 1.2 ) in combination with carboplatin and either paclitaxel or paclitaxel protein-bound, as first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic squamous NSCLC. ( 1.2 ) as a single agent for the first-line treatment of adult patients with NSCLC expressing PD-L1 [Tumor Proportion Score (TPS) ≥1%] as determined by an FDA-approved test, with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations, and is: Stage III where patients are not candidates for surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation, or metastatic. ( 1.2 , 2.1 ) as a single agent for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 (TPS ≥1%) as determined by an FDA-approved test, with disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations should have disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations prior to receiving KEYTRUDA QLEX. ( 1.2 , 2.1 ) for the treatment of adult patients with resectable (tumors ≥4 cm or node positive) NSCLC in combination with platinum-containing chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as a single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery. ( 1.2 ) as a single agent, for adjuvant treatment following resection and platinum-based chemotherapy for adult patients with Stage IB (T2a ≥4 cm), II, or IIIA NSCLC. ( 1.2 ) Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma (MPM) in combination with pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy, as first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable advanced or metastatic MPM. ( 1.3 ) Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer (HNSCC) in combination with platinum and FU for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic or with unresectable, recurrent HNSCC. ( 1.4 ) as a single agent for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic or with unresectable, recurrent HNSCC whose tumors express PD-L1 [Combined Positive Score (CPS) ≥1] as determined by an FDA-approved test. ( 1.4 , 2.1 ) as a single agent for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC with disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. ( 1.4 ) Urothelial Cancer in combination with enfortumab vedotin, for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer. ( 1.5 ) as a single agent for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who: are not eligible for any platinum-containing chemotherapy, or who have disease progression during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy or within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy. ( 1.5 ) as a single agent for the treatment of adult patients with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG)-unresponsive, high-risk, non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) with carcinoma in situ (CIS) with or without papillary tumors who are ineligible for or have elected not to undergo cystectomy. ( 1.5 ) Microsatellite Instability-High or Mismatch Repair Deficient Cancer for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with unresectable or metastatic microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) solid tumors, as determined by an FDA-approved test, that have progressed following prior treatment and who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options. ( 1.6 , 2.1 ) Microsatellite Instability-High or Mismatch Repair Deficient Colorectal Cancer (CRC) for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic MSI-H or dMMR colorectal cancer (CRC) as determined by an FDA-approved test. ( 1.7 , 2.1 ) Gastric Cancer in combination with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, for the first-line treatment of adults with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) as determined by an FDA-approved test. ( 1.8 ) in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, for the first-line treatment of adults with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-negative gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) as determined by an FDA-approved test. ( 1.8 ) Esophageal Cancer for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic esophageal or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) (tumors with epicenter 1 to 5 centimeters above the GEJ) carcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation either: in combination with platinum- and fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy for patients whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1), or as a single agent after one or more prior lines of systemic therapy for patients with tumors of squamous cell histology that express PD-L1 (CPS ≥10) as determined by an FDA-approved test. ( 1.9 , 2.1 ) Cervical Cancer in combination with chemoradiotherapy, for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced cervical cancer involving the lower third of the vagina, with or without extension to pelvic sidewall, or hydronephrosis/non-functioning kidney, or spread to adjacent pelvic organs (FIGO 2014 Stage III-IVA). ( 1.10 ) in combination with chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab, for the treatment of adult patients with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) as determined by an FDA-approved test. ( 1.10 , 2.1 ) as a single agent for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) as determined by an FDA-approved test. ( 1.10 , 2.1 ) Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) for the treatment of adult patients with HCC secondary to hepatitis B who have received prior systemic therapy other than a PD-1/PD-L1-containing regimen. ( 1.11 ) Biliary Tract Cancer (BTC) in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin, for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic biliary tract cancer. ( 1.12 ) Merkel Cell Carcinoma (MCC) for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with recurrent locally advanced or metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma. ( 1.13 ) Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) in combination with axitinib, for the first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC. ( 1.14 ) in combination with lenvatinib, for the first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC. ( 1.14 ) for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with RCC at intermediate-high or high risk of recurrence following nephrectomy, or following nephrectomy and resection of metastatic lesions. ( 1.14 ) Endometrial Carcinoma in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, followed by KEYTRUDA QLEX as a single agent, for the treatment of adult patients with primary advanced or recurrent endometrial carcinoma. ( 1.15 ) in combination with lenvatinib, for the treatment of adult patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma that is mismatch repair proficient (pMMR) or not MSI-H as determined by an FDA-approved test, who have disease progression following prior systemic therapy in any setting and are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation. ( 1.15 , 2.1 ) as a single agent, for the treatment of adult patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma that is MSI-H or dMMR, as determined by an FDA-approved test, who have disease progression following prior systemic therapy in any setting and are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation. ( 1.15 , 2.1 ) Tumor Mutational Burden-High (TMB-H) Cancer for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with unresectable or metastatic tumor mutational burden-high (TMB-H) [≥10 mutations/megabase (mut/Mb)] solid tumors, as determined by an FDA-approved test, that have progressed following prior treatment and who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options. 1 ( 1.16 , 2.1 ) Limitations of Use : The safety and effectiveness of KEYTRUDA QLEX in pediatric patients 12 years and older with TMB-H central nervous system cancers have not been established. Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma (cSCC) for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic cSCC or locally advanced cSCC that is not curable by surgery or radiation. ( 1.17 ) Triple-Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC) for the treatment of adult patients with high-risk early-stage TNBC in combination with chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as a single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery. ( 1.18 ) in combination with chemotherapy, for the treatment of adult patients with locally recurrent unresectable or metastatic TNBC whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥10) as determined by an FDA approved test. ( 1.18 , 2.1 ) 1 This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and durability of response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in the confirmatory trials. 1.1 Melanoma KEYTRUDA QLEX ™ is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with Stage IIB, IIC, or III melanoma following complete resection. 1.2 Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations. KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with carboplatin and either paclitaxel or paclitaxel protein-bound, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic squamous NSCLC. KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with NSCLC expressing PD-L1 [Tumor Proportion Score (TPS) ≥1%] as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] , with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations, and is: Stage III where patients are not candidates for surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation, or metastatic. KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 (TPS ≥1%) as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] , with disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations should have disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations prior to receiving KEYTRUDA QLEX. KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with resectable (tumors ≥4 cm or node positive) NSCLC in combination with platinum-containing chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as a single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery. KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated as adjuvant treatment following resection and platinum-based chemotherapy for adult patients with Stage IB (T2a ≥4 cm), II, or IIIA NSCLC. 1.3 Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable advanced or metastatic malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM). 1.4 Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with platinum and fluorouracil (FU), is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic or with unresectable, recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic or with unresectable, recurrent HNSCC whose tumors express PD-L1 [Combined Positive Score (CPS) ≥1] as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC with disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. 1.5 Urothelial Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with enfortumab vedotin, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer. KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma: who are not eligible for any platinum-containing chemotherapy, or who have disease progression during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy or within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy. KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG)-unresponsive, high-risk, non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) with carcinoma in situ (CIS) with or without papillary tumors who are ineligible for or have elected not to undergo cystectomy. 1.6 Microsatellite Instability-High or Mismatch Repair Deficient Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with unresectable or metastatic microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) solid tumors, as determined by an FDA-approved test, that have progressed following prior treatment and who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 1.7 Microsatellite Instability-High or Mismatch Repair Deficient Colorectal Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic MSI-H or dMMR colorectal cancer (CRC) as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 1.8 Gastric Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adults with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adults with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2-negative gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥ 1) as determined by an FDA approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 1.9 Esophageal Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic esophageal or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) (tumors with epicenter 1 to 5 centimeters above the GEJ) carcinoma that is not amenable to surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation either: in combination with platinum- and fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy for patients with tumors that express PD-L1 (CPS ≥ 1) [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] , or as a single agent after one or more prior lines of systemic therapy for patients with tumors of squamous cell histology that express PD-L1 (CPS ≥10) as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 1.10 Cervical Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with chemoradiotherapy (CRT), is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced cervical cancer involving the lower third of the vagina, with or without extension to pelvic sidewall, or hydronephrosis/non-functioning kidney, or spread to adjacent pelvic organs (FIGO 2014 Stage III-IVA). KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 1.11 Hepatocellular Carcinoma KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) secondary to hepatitis B who have received prior systemic therapy other than a PD-1/PD-L1-containing regimen. 1.12 Biliary Tract Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic biliary tract cancer (BTC). 1.13 Merkel Cell Carcinoma KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with recurrent locally advanced or metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC). 1.14 Renal Cell Carcinoma KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with axitinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with lenvatinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC. KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with RCC at intermediate-high or high risk of recurrence following nephrectomy, or following nephrectomy and resection of metastatic lesions [see Clinical Studies (14.15) ] . 1.15 Endometrial Carcinoma KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, followed by KEYTRUDA QLEX as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with primary advanced or recurrent endometrial carcinoma. KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with lenvatinib, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma that is mismatch repair proficient (pMMR) or not MSI-H as determined by an FDA-approved test, who have disease progression following prior systemic therapy in any setting and are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . KEYTRUDA QLEX, as a single agent, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma that is MSI-H or dMMR, as determined by an FDA-approved test, who have disease progression following prior systemic therapy in any setting and are not candidates for curative surgery or radiation [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 1.16 Tumor Mutational Burden-High Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older with unresectable or metastatic tumor mutational burden-high (TMB-H) [≥10 mutations/megabase (mut/Mb)] solid tumors, as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] , that have progressed following prior treatment and who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options . This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and durability of response [see Clinical Studies (14.17) ] . Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in the confirmatory trials. Limitations of Use : The safety and effectiveness of KEYTRUDA QLEX in pediatric patients 12 years and older with TMB-H central nervous system cancers have not been established. 1.17 Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) or locally advanced cSCC that is not curable by surgery or radiation. 1.18 Triple-Negative Breast Cancer KEYTRUDA QLEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with high-risk early-stage triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) in combination with chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as a single agent as adjuvant treatment after surgery. KEYTRUDA QLEX, in combination with chemotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally recurrent unresectable or metastatic TNBC whose tumors express PD-L1 (CPS ≥10) as determined by an FDA-approved test [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION KEYTRUDA QLEX has different recommended dosage and administration than intravenous pembrolizumab. ( 2.2 ) KEYTRUDA QLEX is for subcutaneous use in the thigh or abdomen only. ( 2.2 ) Do not administer KEYTRUDA QLEX intravenously. ( 2.2 ) KEYTRUDA QLEX must be administered by a healthcare provider. ( 2.2 ) The recommended dose for adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older who weigh greater than 40 kg is: Every 3-week dosing (395 mg/4,800 units): Inject 2.4 mL subcutaneously in the abdomen or thigh over 1 minute. ( 2.3 ) Every 6-week dosing (790 mg/9,600 units): Inject 4.8 mL subcutaneously in the abdomen or thigh over 2 minutes.( 2.3 ) For RCC, administer KEYTRUDA QLEX as a single agent in the adjuvant setting, or in the advanced setting with either: axitinib 5 mg orally twice daily or lenvatinib 20 mg orally once daily. ( 2.3 ) For Endometrial Carcinoma, administer KEYTRUDA QLEX: in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel regardless of MMR or MSI status, or in combination with lenvatinib 20 mg orally once daily for pMMR or not MSI-H tumors, or as a single agent for MSI-H or dMMR tumors. ( 2.3 ) See Full Prescribing Information for dosage modifications for adverse reactions and preparation and administration instructions. ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) 2.1 Patient Selection See information on FDA-approved tests for intravenous pembrolizumab. Information on FDA-approved tests for patient selection is available at: http://www.fda.gov/CompanionDiagnostics . Patient Selection for Single-Agent Treatment Select patients for treatment with KEYTRUDA QLEX as a single agent based on the presence of positive PD-L1 expression in: Stage III NSCLC who are not candidates for surgical resection or definitive chemoradiation [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . metastatic NSCLC [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. first-line treatment of metastatic or unresectable, recurrent HNSCC [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . previously treated recurrent locally advanced or metastatic esophageal cancer [see Clinical Studies (14.10) ] . recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer with disease progression on or after chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies (14.11) ] . For the MSI-H/dMMR indications, select patients for treatment with KEYTRUDA QLEX as a single agent based on MSI-H/dMMR status in tumor specimens [see Clinical Studies (14.7 , 14.8) ]. For the TMB-H indication, select patients for treatment with KEYTRUDA QLEX as a single agent based on TMB-H status in tumor specimens [see Clinical Studies (14.17) ]. Because subclonal dMMR mutations and microsatellite instability may arise in high-grade gliomas during temozolomide therapy, it is recommended to test for TMB-H, MSI-H, and dMMR in the primary tumor specimens obtained prior to initiation of temozolomide chemotherapy in patients with high-grade gliomas. Additional Patient Selection Information for MSI-H or dMMR in Patients with non-CRC Solid Tumors Due to discordance between local tests and FDA-approved tests, confirmation of MSI-H or dMMR status is recommended by an FDA-approved test in patients with MSI-H or dMMR solid tumors, if feasible. If unable to perform confirmatory MSI-H/dMMR testing, the presence of TMB ≥10 mut/Mb, as determined by an FDA-approved test, may be used to select patients for treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.7) ] . Patient Selection for Combination Therapy For use of KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with chemotherapy, select patients based on the presence of positive PD-L1 expression (CPS ≥1) in locally advanced unresectable or metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma, and esophageal or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) carcinoma [see Clinical Studies (14.9) , (14.10) ]. An FDA-approved test for the detection of PD-L1 for the selection of patients with PD-L1 (CPS ≥1) expression in esophageal carcinoma in combination with platinum- and fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is not available. For use of KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab, select patients based on the presence of positive PD-L1 expression in persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer [see Clinical Studies (14.11) ]. For the pMMR/not MSI-H advanced endometrial carcinoma indication, select patients for treatment with KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with lenvatinib based on MMR or MSI status in tumor specimens [see Clinical Studies (14.16) ] . For use of KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with chemotherapy, select patients based on the presence of positive PD-L1 expression in locally recurrent unresectable or metastatic TNBC [see Clinical Studies (14.19) ] . 2.2 Important Dosage and Administration Information KEYTRUDA QLEX has different recommended dosage and administration instructions than intravenous pembrolizumab. To reduce the risk of medication errors, check the vial labels to ensure that the drug being prepared and administered is KEYTRUDA QLEX for subcutaneous use and not intravenous pembrolizumab. Do not substitute KEYTRUDA QLEX with intravenous pembrolizumab because they have different recommended dosages and routes of administration. Patients receiving intravenous pembrolizumab can switch to subcutaneous KEYTRUDA QLEX at their next scheduled dose. Patients receiving subcutaneous KEYTRUDA QLEX can switch to intravenous pembrolizumab at their next scheduled dose. Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX as a subcutaneous injection into the thigh or abdomen, avoiding the 5 cm area around the navel. Every 3-week dosing (395 mg/4,800 units) : inject 2.4 mL subcutaneously over 1 minute. Treatment duration is provided in Recommended Dosage (Table 1). Every 6-week dosing (790 mg/9,600 units): inject 4.8 mL subcutaneously over 2 minutes. Treatment duration is provided in Recommended Dosage (Table 1). Inject into healthy skin and never into areas where the skin is red, bruised, tender, or hard. Ensure the injection site is at least 2.5 cm from the previous injection site. During treatment with KEYTRUDA QLEX, do not administer other medications for subcutaneous use at the same site as KEYTRUDA QLEX. Do not administer KEYTRUDA QLEX intravenously. KEYTRUDA QLEX must be administered by a healthcare provider. 2.3 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosages of KEYTRUDA QLEX are presented in Table 1. Every 3-week dosing (395 mg pembrolizumab and 4,800 units berahyaluronidase alfa): inject 2.4 mL subcutaneously over 1 minute. Every 6-week dosing (790 mg pembrolizumab and 9,600 units berahyaluronidase alfa): inject 4.8 mL subcutaneously over 2 minutes. Table 1: Recommended Dosage Indication Recommended Dosage of KEYTRUDA QLEX Duration/Timing of Treatment Monotherapy Adult patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity Adjuvant treatment of adult patients with melanoma, NSCLC, or RCC 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Until disease recurrence, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 12 months Adult patients with NSCLC, HNSCC, locally advanced or metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma, MSI-H or dMMR Cancer, MSI-H or dMMR CRC, MSI-H or dMMR Endometrial Carcinoma, Esophageal Cancer, Cervical Cancer, HCC, MCC, TMB-H Cancer, or cSCC 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months Adult patients with high-risk BCG- unresponsive NMIBC 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Until persistent or recurrent high-risk NMIBC, disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months Pediatric patients The recommended dosage for melanoma, MSI-H or dMMR cancer, MCC and TMB-H cancer has not been established in pediatric patients 12 years and older who weigh 40 kg or less [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . (12 years and older who weigh greater than 40 kg) with MSI-H or dMMR Cancer, MCC, or TMB- H Cancer 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months Pediatric patients (12 years and older who weigh greater than 40 kg) for adjuvant treatment of melanoma 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Until disease recurrence, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 12 months Combination Therapy Refer to the Prescribing Information for the agents administered in combination with KEYTRUDA QLEX for recommended dosing information, as appropriate. Adult patients with resectable NSCLC 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX prior to chemotherapy when given on the same day. Neoadjuvant treatment in combination with chemotherapy for 12 weeks or until disease progression that precludes definitive surgery or unacceptable toxicity, followed by adjuvant treatment with KEYTRUDA QLEX as a single agent after surgery for 39 weeks or until disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity Adult patients with NSCLC, MPM, HNSCC, HER2-negative Gastric Cancer, Esophageal Cancer, or BTC 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX prior to chemotherapy when given on the same day. Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months Adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX after enfortumab vedotin when given on the same day. Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months Adult patients with HER2-positive Gastric Cancer 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX prior to trastuzumab and chemotherapy when given on the same day. Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months Adult patients with Cervical Cancer 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX prior to chemoradiotherapy or prior to chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab when given on the same day. Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or for KEYTRUDA QLEX, up to 24 months Adult patients with RCC 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with axitinib 5 mg orally twice daily When axitinib is used in combination with KEYTRUDA QLEX, dose escalation of axitinib above the initial 5 mg dose may be considered at intervals of six weeks or longer. or Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with lenvatinib 20 mg orally once daily. Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or for KEYTRUDA QLEX, up to 24 months Adult patients with Endometrial Carcinoma 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX prior to carboplatin and paclitaxel when given on the same day. or Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with lenvatinib 20 mg orally once daily. Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or for KEYTRUDA QLEX, up to 24 months Adult patients with high-risk early-stage TNBC 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX prior to chemotherapy when given on the same day. Neoadjuvant treatment in combination with chemotherapy for 24 weeks (8 doses of 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 4 doses of 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks) or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, followed by adjuvant treatment with KEYTRUDA QLEX as a single agent for up to 27 weeks (9 doses of 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 5 doses of 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks) or until disease recurrence or unacceptable toxicity Patients who experience disease progression or unacceptable toxicity related to KEYTRUDA QLEX with neoadjuvant treatment in combination with chemotherapy should not receive adjuvant single agent KEYTRUDA QLEX. Adult patients with locally recurrent unresectable or metastatic TNBC 395 mg/4,800 units every 3 weeks or 790 mg/9,600 units every 6 weeks Administer KEYTRUDA QLEX prior to chemotherapy when given on the same day. Until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months 2.4 Dosage Modifications No dose reduction for KEYTRUDA QLEX is recommended. In general, withhold KEYTRUDA QLEX for severe (Grade 3) immune-mediated adverse reactions. Permanently discontinue KEYTRUDA QLEX for Life-threatening (Grade 4) immune-mediated adverse reactions, recurrent severe (Grade 3) immune-mediated reactions that require systemic immunosuppressive treatment, or an inability to reduce corticosteroid dose to 10 mg or less of prednisone or equivalent per day within 12 weeks of initiating steroids. Dosage modifications for KEYTRUDA QLEX for adverse reactions that require management different from these general guidelines are summarized in Table 2. Table 2: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Adverse Reaction Severity Based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 Dosage Modification ALT = alanine aminotransferase, AST = aspartate aminotransferase, DRESS = Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms, SJS = Stevens Johnson Syndrome, TEN = toxic epidermal necrolysis, ULN = upper limit normal Immune-Mediated Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Pneumonitis Grade 2 Withhold Resume in patients with complete or partial resolution (Grades 0 to 1) after corticosteroid taper. Permanently discontinue if no complete or partial resolution within 12 weeks of initiating steroids or inability to reduce prednisone to 10 mg per day or less (or equivalent) within 12 weeks of initiating steroids. Grade 3 or 4 Permanently discontinue Colitis Grade 2 or 3 Withhold Grade 4 Permanently discontinue Hepatitis with no tumor involvement of the liver AST or ALT increases to more than 3 and up to 8 times ULN or Total bilirubin increases to more than 1.5 and up to 3 times ULN Withhold For liver enzyme elevations in patients treated with combination therapy with axitinib, see Table 3 . AST or ALT increases to more than 8 times ULN or Total bilirubin increases to more than 3 times ULN Permanently discontinue Hepatitis with tumor involvement of the liver If AST and ALT are less than or equal to ULN at baseline, withhold or permanently discontinue KEYTRUDA QLEX based on recommendations for hepatitis with no liver involvement. Baseline AST or ALT is more than 1 and up to 3 times ULN and increases to more than 5 and up to 10 times ULN or Baseline AST or ALT is more than 3 and up to 5 times ULN and increases to more than 8 and up to 10 times ULN Withhold ALT or AST increases to more than 10 times ULN or Total bilirubin increases to more than 3 times ULN Permanently discontinue Endocrinopathies Grade 3 or 4 Withhold until clinically stable or permanently discontinue depending on severity Nephritis with Renal Dysfunction Grade 2 or 3 increased blood creatinine Withhold Grade 4 increased blood creatinine Permanently discontinue Exfoliative Dermatologic Conditions Suspected SJS, TEN, or DRESS Withhold Confirmed SJS, TEN, or DRESS Permanently discontinue Myocarditis Grade 2, 3, or 4 Permanently discontinue Neurological Toxicities Grade 2 Withhold Grade 3 or 4 Permanently discontinue Other Adverse Reactions Hypersensitivity and Administration-Related Systemic Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Grade 1 or 2 Interrupt injection (if not already fully administered). If symptoms resolve, resume injection Grade 3 or 4 Permanently discontinue The following table represents dosage modifications that are different from those described above for KEYTRUDA QLEX or in the Full Prescribing Information for the drug administered in combination. Table 3: Recommended Specific Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions for KEYTRUDA QLEX in Combination with Axitinib Treatment Adverse Reaction Severity Dosage Modification ALT = alanine aminotransferase, AST = aspartate aminotransferase, ULN = upper limit normal KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with axitinib Liver enzyme elevations Consider corticosteroid therapy ALT or AST increases to at least 3 times but less than 10 times ULN without concurrent total bilirubin at least 2 times ULN Withhold both KEYTRUDA QLEX and axitinib until resolution to Grades 0 or 1 Based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0. Consider rechallenge with a single drug or sequential rechallenge with both drugs after recovery. If rechallenging with axitinib, consider dose reduction as per the axitinib Prescribing Information. ALT or AST increases to more than 3 times ULN with concurrent total bilirubin at least 2 times ULN or ALT or AST ≥10 times ULN Permanently discontinue both KEYTRUDA QLEX and axitinib Recommended Dose Modifications for Adverse Reactions for KEYTRUDA QLEX in Combination with Lenvatinib When administering KEYTRUDA QLEX in combination with lenvatinib, modify the dosage of one or both drugs. Withhold or discontinue KEYTRUDA QLEX as shown in Table 2. Refer to lenvatinib prescribing information for additional dose modification information. 2.5 Preparation KEYTRUDA QLEX is a ready-to-use solution. Do not dilute KEYTRUDA QLEX. Do not shake. Preparation of the Syringe Remove KEYTRUDA QLEX vial from refrigerated storage [2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F)] and allow it to equilibrate to room temperature [20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F)] for at least 30 minutes. Prior to preparation for administration, if needed, the unpunctured vial may be stored at room temperature for up to 24 hours. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. The solution is clear to slightly opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow. Discard the vial if visible particles are observed. Use a sterile, polypropylene or polycarbonate syringe and a stainless steel transfer needle (18 to 21 gauge) to withdraw KEYTRUDA QLEX from the vial. Every 3-week dosing (395 mg pembrolizumab/4,800 units berahyaluronidase alfa) : withdraw 2.4 mL into the syringe. Every 6-week dosing (790 mg pembrolizumab/9,600 units berahyaluronidase alfa) : withdraw 4.8 mL into the syringe. To avoid needle clogging, change the needle to a 25 to 30 gauge, ½-inch, stainless steel hypodermic injection needle immediately prior to subcutaneous injection. Discard any unused portion left in the vial. Storage of Prepared Syringe The product does not contain a preservative and should be used immediately after withdrawing from the vial. If not used immediately, store the syringe containing KEYTRUDA QLEX with the transfer needle and cap in place: At room temperature 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) for up to 8 hours, or In the refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) for up to 24 hours. The 24-hour period may include up to 8 hours at room temperature. Discard if storage time exceeds these limits. If refrigerated, allow the filled syringe to come to room temperature for at least 30 minutes prior to administration. Do not freeze.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING KEYTRUDA QLEX (pembrolizumab and berahyaluronidase alfa-pmph) injection is a sterile, preservative-free, clear to slightly opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow solution supplied in single-dose vials for subcutaneous administration. Each carton contains one single-dose vial either as: 395 mg pembrolizumab and 4,800 units berahyaluronidase alfa per 2.4 mL (165 mg/ 2,000 units per mL), NDC 0006-3083-01 790 mg pembrolizumab and 9,600 units berahyaluronidase alfa per 4.8 mL (165 mg/ 2,000 units per mL), NDC 0006-5083-01 Store vials refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in original carton to protect from light. Do not freeze. Do not shake.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 097d166f-b73b-41d3-9b37-7653cd2a0c41
