Name: Pentosan polysulfate sodium

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE ELMIRON ® (pentosan polysulfate sodium) is indicated for the relief of bladder pain or discomfort associated with interstitial cystitis.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ELMIRON ® is 300 mg/day taken as one 100 mg capsule orally three times daily. The capsules should be taken with water at least 1 hour before meals or 2 hours after meals. Patients receiving ELMIRON ® should be reassessed after 3 months. If improvement has not occurred and if limiting adverse events are not present, ELMIRON ® may be continued for another 3 months. The clinical value and risks of continued treatment in patients whose pain has not improved by 6 months is not known.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED ELMIRON ® is supplied in white opaque hard gelatin capsules imprinted "BNP7600" containing 100 mg pentosan polysulfate sodium. Supplied in bottles of 100 capsules. NDC NUMBER 50458-098-01 Storage Store at 20 °C to 25 °C (68 °F to 77 °F); excursions permitted to 15 °C to 30 °C (59 °F to 86 °F). Keep out of reach of children. WARNINGS Retinal Pigmentary Changes Pigmentary changes in the retina, reported in the literature as pigmentary maculopathy, have been identified with long-term use of ELMIRON ® (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Although most of these cases occurred after 3 years of use or longer, cases have been seen with a shorter duration of use. While the etiology is unclear, cumulative dose appears to be a risk factor. Visual symptoms in the reported cases included difficulty reading, slow adjustment to low or reduced light environments, and blurred vision. The visual consequences of these pigmentary changes are not fully characterized. Caution should be used in patients with retinal pigment changes from other causes in which examination findings may confound the appropriate diagnosis, follow-up, and treatment. Detailed ophthalmologic history should be obtained in all patients prior to starting treatment with ELMIRON ® . If there is a family history of hereditary pattern dystrophy, genetic testing should be considered. For patients with pre-existing ophthalmologic conditions, a comprehensive baseline retinal examination (including color fundoscopic photography, ocular coherence tomography (OCT), and auto-fluorescence imaging) is recommended prior to starting therapy. A baseline retinal examination (including OCT and auto-fluorescence imaging) is suggested for all patients within six months of initiating treatment and periodically while continuing treatment. If pigmentary changes in the retina develop, then risks and benefits of continuing treatment should be re-evaluated, since these changes may be irreversible. Follow-up retinal examinations should be continued given that retinal and vision changes may progress even after cessation of treatment.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: f0ba651e-3d8a-11df-8fbe-119855d89593
