Name: Perindopril

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perindopril erbumine tablets are indicated for the treatment of patients with essential hypertension. (1.1) Perindopril erbumine tablets are indicated for treatment of patients with stable coronary artery disease to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality or nonfatal myocardial infarction. (1.2) 1.1 Hypertension Perindopril erbumine tablets are indicated for the treatment of patients with essential hypertension. Perindopril erbumine tablets may be used alone or given with other classes of antihypertensives, especially thiazide diuretics. 1.2 Stable Coronary Artery Disease Perindopril erbumine tablets are indicated for treatment of patients with stable coronary artery disease to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality or nonfatal myocardial infarction. Perindopril erbumine tablets can be used with conventional treatment for management of coronary artery disease, such as antiplatelet, antihypertensive or lipid-lowering therapy.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The recommended initial dose is 4 mg once a day. The dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure, when measured just before the next dose, is controlled or to a maximum of 16 mg per day. (2.1) Stable Coronary Artery Disease Perindopril erbumine tablets should be given at an initial dose of 4 mg once daily for 2 weeks, and then increased, as tolerated, to a maintenance dose of 8 mg once daily. (2.2) 2.1 Hypertension Use in Uncomplicated Hypertensive Patients: In patients with essential hypertension, the recommended initial dose is 4 mg once a day. The dose may be titrated, as needed to a maximum of 16 mg per day. The usual maintenance dose range is 4 mg to 8 mg administered as a single daily dose or in two divided doses. Use in Elderly Patients: The recommended initial daily dosage of perindopril erbumine tablets for the elderly is 4 mg daily, given in one or two divided doses. Experience with perindopril erbumine tablets is limited in the elderly at doses exceeding 8 mg. Dosages above 8 mg should be administered with careful blood pressure monitoring and dose titration [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] . Use with Diuretics: In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic, symptomatic hypotension can occur following the initial dose of perindopril erbumine tablets. Consider reducing the dose of diuretic prior to starting perindopril erbumine tablets [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.2 Stable Coronary Artery Disease In patients with stable coronary artery disease, perindopril erbumine tablets should be given at an initial dose of 4 mg once daily for 2 weeks, and then increased as tolerated, to a maintenance dose of 8 mg once daily. In elderly patients (greater than 70 years), perindopril erbumine tablets should be given as a 2 mg dose once daily in the first week, followed by 4 mg once daily in the second week and 8 mg once daily for maintenance dose if tolerated. 2.3 Dose Adjustment in Renal Impairment and Dialysis Perindoprilat elimination is decreased in renally impaired patients. Perindopril erbumine tablets are not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance <30 mL/min. For patients with lesser degrees of impairment, the initial dosage should be 2 mg/day and dosage should not exceed 8 mg/day. During dialysis, perindopril is removed with the same clearance as in patients with normal renal function.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Perindopril Erbumine T ablets USP, 2 mg are white to off-white colored round biconvex, uncoated tablets, with debossing “D” on one side and “5” & “7” on either side of the breakline on another side. Bottles of 100 NDC 65862-286-01 Perindopril Erbumine T ablets USP, 4 mg are white to off-white colored capsule shaped uncoated tablets, with debossing “D” on one side and “5” & “8” on either side of the breakline on another side. Bottles of 100 NDC 65862-287-01 Perindopril Erbumine T ablets USP, 8 mg are white to off-white colored round biconvex uncoated tablets, with debossing “D” on one side and “5” & “9” on either side of breakline on another side. Bottles of 100 NDC 65862-288-01 Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from moisture. Keep out of the reach of children. For further information, please call Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc. at 1-866-850-2876.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 87768fbf-7c63-47da-8925-0316f343d6ef
