Name: Pimecrolimus

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% is indicated as second-line therapy for the short-term and non-continuous chronic treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in non-immunocompromised adults and children 2 years of age and older, who have failed to respond adequately to other topical prescription treatments, or when those treatments are not advisable. Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% is not indicated for use in children less than 2 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% is a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated as second-line therapy for the short-term and non-continuous chronic treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in non-immunocompromised adults and children 2 years of age and older, who have failed to respond adequately to other topical prescription treatments, or when those treatments are not advisable. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% to the affected skin twice daily. The patient should stop using Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% when signs and symptoms (e.g., itch, rash and redness) resolve and should be instructed on what actions to take if symptoms recur. If signs and symptoms persist beyond 6 weeks, patients should be re-examined by their healthcare provider to confirm the diagnosis of atopic dermatitis. Continuous long-term use of Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% should be avoided, and application should be limited to areas of involvement with atopic dermatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . The safety of Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% under occlusion, which may promote systemic exposure, has not been evaluated. Avoid use of Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% with occlusive dressings. • Apply a thin layer of Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% to the affected skin twice daily. ( 2 ) • If signs and symptoms persist beyond 6 weeks, patients should be re-examined. ( 2 ) • Continuous long-term use of Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% should be avoided. ( 2 ) • Avoid use with occlusive dressings. ( 2 )

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Pimecrolimus Cream, 1% is a whitish cream NDC: 72162-1889-3: 30 g Creams in a TUBE Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Do not freeze. Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 03b93b3b-c046-40ad-a486-163a67aa070f
