Name: Pimozide

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pimozide tablets, USP are indicated for the suppression of motor and phonic tics in patients with Tourette’s Disorder who have failed to respond satisfactorily to standard treatment. Pimozide Tablets, USP are not intended as a treatment of first choice nor is it intended for the treatment of tics that are merely annoying or cosmetically troublesome. Pimozide Tablets, USP should be reserved for use in Tourette’s Disorder patients whose development and/or daily life function is severely compromised by the presence of motor and phonic tics. Evidence supporting approval of pimozide tablets, USP for use in Tourette’s Disorder was obtained in two controlled clinical investigations which enrolled patients between the ages of 8 and 53 years. Most subjects in the two trials were 12 or older.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General The suppression of tics by pimozide tablets, USP requires a slow and gradual introduction of the drug. The patient’s dose should be carefully adjusted to a point where the suppression of tics and the relief afforded is balanced against the untoward side effects of the drug. An ECG should be done at baseline and periodically thereafter, especially during the period of dose adjustment (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS - Laboratory Tests). Periodic attempts should be made to reduce the dosage of pimozide tablets, USP to see whether or not tics persist at the level and extent first identified. In attempts to reduce the dosage of pimozide tablets, USP consideration should be given to the possibility that increases of tic intensity and frequency may represent a transient, withdrawal related phenomenon rather than a return of disease symptoms. Specifically, one to two weeks should be allowed to elapse before one concludes that an increase in tic manifestations is a function of the underlying disease syndrome rather than a response to drug withdrawal. A gradual withdrawal is recommended in any case. Children Reliable dose response data for the effects of pimozide tablets, USP on tic manifestation in Tourette’s Disorder patients below the age of twelve are not available. Treatment should be initiated at a dose of 0.05 mg/kg preferably taken once at bedtime. The dose may be increased every third day to a maximum of 0.2 mg/kg not to exceed 10 mg/day. At doses above 0.05 mg/kg/day, CYP 2D6 genotyping should be performed. In poor CYP 2D6 metabolizers, pimozide tablets, USP doses should not exceed 0.05 mg/kg/day, and doses should not be increased earlier than 14 days (see PRECAUTIONS – Pharmacogenomics) . Adults In general, treatment with pimozide tablets, USP should be initiated with a dose of 1 to 2 mg a day in divided doses. The dose may be increased thereafter every other day. Most patients are maintained at less than 0.2 mg/kg/day, or 10 mg/day, whichever is less. Doses greater than 0.2 mg/kg/day or 10 mg/day are not recommended. At doses above 4 mg/day, CYP 2D6 genotyping should be performed. In poor CYP 2D6 metabolizers, pimozide tablets, USP doses should not exceed 4 mg/day, and doses should not be increased earlier than 14 days (see PRECAUTIONS – Pharmacogenomics ).

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Pimozide Tablets USP, 1 mg are white to off-white, uncoated round shaped tablets with debossed bisect separating "EP" and "320" on one side and other side has a single bisect. They are available in bottles of 100 (NDC 49884-347-01). Pimozide Tablets USP, 2 mg are white to off-white, uncoated oval shaped tablets with debossed bisect separating "EP" and "321" on one side and other side has a single bisect. They are available in bottles of 100 (NDC 49884-348-01). Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Pharmacist : Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the official compendium with a child-resistant closure as required. Rx Only Manufactured for: Endo USA Malvern, PA 19355 U.S.A. Made in India Neutral Code: TN/DRUGS/TN00002121 © 2024 Endo, Inc. or one of its affiliates. Revised: 08/2024 WARNINGS The use of pimozide in the treatment of Tourette’s Disorder involves different risk/benefit considerations than when antipsychotic drugs are used to treat other conditions. Consequently, a decision to use pimozide should take into consideration the following (see also PRECAUTIONS - Information for Patients ). Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely upon prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of antipsychotic treatment, which patients are likely to develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. Both the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible are believed to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase. However, the syndrome can develop, although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses. There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and thereby may possibly mask the underlying process. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, antipsychotic drugs should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness, that 1) is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs, and, 2) for whom alternative, equally effective, but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient on antipsychotics, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment despite the presence of the syndrome. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS - Information for Patients .) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status (including catatonic signs) and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmias). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis) and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient requires antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, the potential reintroduction of drug therapy should be carefully considered. The patient should be carefully monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. Hyperpyrexia, not associated with the above symptom complex, has been reported with other antipsychotic drugs. Other Sudden, unexpected deaths have occurred in experimental studies of conditions other than Tourette’s Disorder. These deaths occurred while patients were receiving dosages in the range of 1 mg per kg. One possible mechanism for such deaths is prolongation of the QT interval predisposing patients to ventricular arrhythmia. An electrocardiogram should be performed before pimozide treatment is initiated and periodically thereafter, especially during the period of dose adjustment. Pimozide may have a tumorigenic potential. Based on studies conducted in mice, it is known that pimozide can produce a dose-related increase in pituitary tumors. The full significance of this finding is not known, but should be taken into consideration in the physician’s and patient’s decisions to use this drug product. This finding should be given special consideration when the patient is young and chronic use of pimozide is anticipated (see PRECAUTIONS - Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility ).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 70b079e2-a1f7-4a93-8685-d60a4d7c1280
