Name: Pitavastatin

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pitavastatin tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in: Adult with primary hyperlipidemia. Adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). Pediatric use information is approved for Kowa Co Ltd’s LIVALO (pitavastatin) tablets. However, due to Kowa Co Ltd’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Pitavastatin is a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in: ( 1 ) Adult patients with primary hyperlipidemia. Adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH).

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally once daily with or without food at the same time each day ( 2.1 ). For patients requiring a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pitavastatin tablets 4 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. ( 2.1 ). Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiation of pitavastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. ( 2.1 ). Recommended dosage is 2 mg to 4 mg once daily. Maximum recommended dosage is 4 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Recommended starting dosage for patients with moderate and severe renal impairment and end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 1 mg once daily. Maximum recommended dosage is 2 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) See full prescribing information for pitavastatin tablets dosage modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Take pitavastatin tablets orally once daily with or without food at the same time each day. For patients requiring a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pitavastatin tablets 4 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiation of pitavastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Adults The recommended dosage range of pitavastatin tablets is 2 mg to 4 mg daily. The maximum recommended dosage is pitavastatin tablets 4 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended starting dose for patients with moderate and severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate 30 – 59 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 and 15 – 29 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 , respectively) and patients with end-stage renal disease receiving hemodialysis is pitavastatin tablets 1 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dose for these patients is pitavastatin tablets 2 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. There are no dosage adjustment recommendation for patients with mild renal impairment. 2.4 Pitavastatin Tablets Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions In patients taking erythromycin, do not exceed pitavastatin tablets 1 mg once daily [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. In patients taking rifampin, do not exceed pitavastatin tablets 2 mg once daily [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Pediatric use information is approved for Kowa Co Ltd’s LIVALO (pitavastatin) tablets. However, due to Kowa Co Ltd’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Pitavastatin tablets for oral administration are provided as white to off-white circular biconvex film-coated tablets that contain 1 mg, 2 mg, or 4 mg of pitavastatin. Each tablet has “OP” debossed on one side and a code number specific to the tablet strength on the other. Packaging Pitavastatin tablets are supplied as: 1 mg: White to off-white circular biconvex film-coated tablets, debossed with the logo “OP” on one side and “57” on the other side. Supplied as follows: NDC 42291-905-90; bottles of 90 tablets 2 mg: White to off-white circular biconvex film-coated tablets, debossed with the logo “OP” on one side and “58” on the other side. Supplied as follows: NDC 42291-906-90; bottles of 90 tablets 4 mg: White to off-white circular biconvex film-coated tablets, debossed with the logo “OP” on one side and “59” on the other side. Supplied as follows: NDC 42291-907-90; bottles of 90 tablets Storage Store at 25°C (77° F), excursions permitted from 15°C-30°C (59°F-86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from light.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0f11ee80-871e-4f13-e063-6394a90af19d
