Name: Podofilox

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Condylox Gel 0.5% is indicated for the topical treatment of anogenital warts (external genital warts and perianal warts). This product is not indicated in the treatment of mucous membrane warts (see PRECAUTIONS ). Diagnosis Although anogenital warts have a characteristic appearance, histopathologic confirmation should be obtained if there is any doubt of the diagnosis. Differentiating warts from squamous cell carcinoma and "Bowenoid papulosis" is of particular concern. Squamous cell carcinoma may also be associated with human papillomavirus which should not be treated with Condylox Gel 0.5%.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The prescriber should ensure that the patient is fully aware of the correct method of therapy and identify which specific warts should be treated. Apply twice daily for 3 consecutive days, then discontinue for 4 consecutive days. This one-week cycle of treatment may be repeated until there is no visible wart tissue or for a maximum of four cycles. If there is incomplete response after four treatment cycles, discontinue treatment and consider alternative treatment. Safety and effectiveness of more than four treatment cycles has not been established. There is no evidence to suggest that more frequent application will increase efficacy, but additional applications would be expected to increase the rate of local adverse reactions and systemic absorption. Condylox Gel 0.5% should be applied to the warts with the applicator tip or finger. Application on the surrounding normal tissue should be minimized. Treatment should be limited to 10 cm 2 or less of wart tissue and to no more than 0.5 g ram of the gel per day. Care should be taken to allow the gel to dry before allowing the return of opposing skin surfaces to their normal positions. Patients should be instructed to wash their hands thoroughly before and after each application.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Condylox Gel 0.5% is supplied as 3.5 grams of clear gel in aluminum tubes with an applicator tip. NDC 0023-6118-03. Store at 20-25°C (68-77°F). [See USP controlled room temperature.] Avoid excessive heat. Do not freeze. Keep out of reach of children. Rx only WARNINGS Correct diagnosis of the lesions to be treated is essential. See the Diagnosis subsection of the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section. Condylox Gel 0.5% is intended for cutaneous use only. Avoid contact with the eyes. If contact with the eyes occurs, patients should immediately flush the eyes with copious quantities of water and seek medical advice. Drug Product is Flammable. Keep Away f rom Open Flame.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 032e4bcb-b1ed-4029-b2a6-e92f3bf5cc37
