Name: Pravastatin

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD). To reduce the risk of coronary death, myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, stroke or transient ischemic attack, and slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in adults with clinically evident CHD. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in pediatric patients ages 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia. Pravastatin sodium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD). To reduce the risk of coronary death, myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, stroke or transient ischemic attack, and slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in adults with clinically evident CHD. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in pediatric patients ages 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food ( 2.1 ). For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pravastatin sodium tablet 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C lowering treatment ( 2.1 ). Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pravastatin sodium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary ( 2.1 ). Adults: recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg to 80 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Pediatric Patients ( 2.3 ): aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily. aged 14 to 18 years, the recommended starting dosage is 40 mg once daily. Severe renal impairment: recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. Use another pravastatin sodium product to initiate dosing. Recommended maximum pravastatin sodium tablets dosage is 40 mg once daily. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for dosage modifications due to drug interactions ( 2.5 , 7 ). 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Take orally pravastatin sodium tablets once daily as a single dose at any time of the day, with or without food. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pravastatin sodium tablets 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pravastatin sodium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg to 80 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with HeFH In pediatric patients aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 20 mg once daily. In pediatric patients aged 14 to 18 years, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg once daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets in patients with severe renal impairment is 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment is the same as patients with normal renal function. 2.5 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [See Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. Concomitant use of pravastatin sodium tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modifications of pravastatin sodium tablet s [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]: Cyclosporine In patients taking cyclosporine, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablet in patients taking cyclosporine is 20 mg once daily. Clarithromycin and Erythromycin The maximum recommended dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg once daily .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied Pravastatin Sodium Tablets, USP 80 mg are available for oral administration as off-white to light yellow, round, unscored tablets, imprinted "APO" on one side and "PRA" over "80" on the other side. They are supplied as follows: NDC: 72162-1711-2: 58 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 72162-1711-3: 30 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 72162-1711-4: 88 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 72162-1711-9: 90 Tablets in a BOTTLE NDC: 72162-1711-5: 500 Tablets in a BOTTLE Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container [see USP]. Protect from light and moisture. Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 00c49d0a-f84c-431e-8fa2-bce0e2d9dbc9
