Name: Probenecid

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ORLYNVAH a combination of sulopenem etzadroxil, a penem antibacterial, and probenecid, a renal tubular transport inhibitor, is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (uUTI) caused by the designated microorganisms Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Proteus mirabilis in adult women who have limited or no alternative oral antibacterial treatment options. ( 1.1 ) Limitations of Use ORLYNVAH is not indicated for the treatment of: Complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) or as step-down treatment after intravenous antibacterial treatment of cUTI. ( 1.1 , 14.2 ) Complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI) or as step-down treatment after intravenous antibacterial treatment of cIAI. ( 1.1 , 14.3 ) Usage to Reduce Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ORLYNVAH and other antibacterial drugs, ORLYNVAH should be used only to treat uUTI that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Culture and susceptibility information should be utilized in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. ( 1.2 , 5.5 ) 1.1 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections ORLYNVAH is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (uUTI) caused by the designated microorganisms Esch erichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Proteus mirabilis in adult women who have limited or no alternative oral antibacterial treatment options. Limitations of Use ORLYNVAH is not indicated for the treatment of: Complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) or as step-down treatment after intravenous antibacterial treatment of cUTI [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI)) or as step-down treatment after intravenous antibacterial treatment of cIAI [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . 1.2 Usage to Reduce Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ORLYNVAH and other antibacterial drugs, ORLYNVAH should be used only to treat uUTI that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria . Culture and susceptibility information should be utilized in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of ORLYNVAH is one tablet orally twice daily for 5 days. ( 2.1 ) Administration of ORLYNVAH with food is recommended. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of ORLYNVAH is one tablet (sulopenem etzadroxil 500 mg and probenecid 500 mg) orally twice daily for 5 days. Administration of ORLYNVAH with food is recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Administration of ORLYNVAH is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance (CrCL) less than 15 mL/min or patients on hemodialysis. No dosage adjustment is required for ORLYNVAH in patients with CrCL greater than or equal to 15 mL/min [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.3 Recommendations Regarding Missed Dose(s) If a dose of ORLYNVAH is missed, instruct patients to take the dose as soon as possible. Do not double the dose to make up for the missed dose.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied ORLYNVAH tablets are supplied as pink, oval-shaped, film-coated, fixed-dose, bilayer combination tablets debossed with SULO on one side and plain on the other side, containing 500 mg of sulopenem etzadroxil and 500 mg of probenecid. They are supplied as follows: Bottles of 10 tablets with child-resistant caps (NDC 81153-100-01) 16.2 Storage and Handling Store ORLYNVAH tablets at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room temperature]. 16.1 How Supplied ORLYNVAH tablets are supplied as pink, oval-shaped, film-coated, fixed-dose, bilayer combination tablets debossed with SULO on one side and plain on the other side, containing 500 mg of sulopenem etzadroxil and 500 mg of probenecid. They are supplied as follows: Bottles of 10 tablets with child-resistant caps (NDC 81153-100-01)

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 24c451c0-4cfb-37f3-e063-6394a90a895e
