Name: Propafenone

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Propafenone hydrochloride tablets are indicated to: prolong the time to recurrence of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation/flutter (PAF) associated with disabling symptoms in patients without structural heart disease. prolong the time to recurrence of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) associated with disabling symptoms in patients without structural heart disease. treat documented ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia that, in the judgment of the physician, are life-threatening. Initiate treatment in the hospital. Usage Considerations: The use of propafenone hydrochloride tablets in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation (AF) or in patients exclusively with atrial flutter or PSVT has not been evaluated. Do not use propafenone hydrochloride tablets to control ventricular rate during AF. Some patients with atrial flutter treated with propafenone have developed 1:1 conduction, producing an increase in ventricular rate. Concomitant treatment with drugs that increase the functional atrioventricular (AV) nodal refractory period is recommended. The use of propafenone hydrochloride tablets in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation has not been evaluated. Because of the proarrhythmic effects of propafenone hydrochloride tablets, its use with lesser ventricular arrhythmias is not recommended, even if patients are symptomatic, and any use of the drug should be reserved for patients in whom, in the opinion of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the risks. The effect of propafenone on mortality has not been determined [see Boxed Warning ] . Propafenone hydrochloride is an antiarrhythmic indicated to: prolong the time to recurrence of symptomatic atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients with episodic (most likely paroxysmal or persistent) AF who do not have structural heart disease. (1) prolong the time to recurrence of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) associated with disabling symptoms in patients who do not have structural heart disease. (1) treat documented life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. (1) Usage Considerations: Use in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation or with atrial flutter or PSVT has not been evaluated. Do not use to control ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation. (1) In patients with atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter, use propafenone hydrochloride tablets with drugs that increase the atrioventricular nodal refractory period. (1) Because of proarrhythmic effects, use with lesser ventricular arrhythmias is not recommended, even if patients are symptomatic. (1) The effect of propafenone on mortality has not been determined. (1)

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of propafenone hydrochloride tablets must be individually titrated on the basis of response and tolerance. Initiate therapy with propafenone hydrochloride tablets 150 mg given every 8 hours (450 mg per day). Dosage may be increased at a minimum of 3- to 4- day intervals to 225 mg every 8 hours (675 mg per day). If additional therapeutic effect is needed, the dose of propafenone hydrochloride tablets may be increased to 300 mg every 8 hours (900 mg per day). The usefulness and safety of dosages exceeding 900 mg per day have not been established. In patients with hepatic impairment or those with significant widening of the QRS complex or second- or third-degree AV block, consider reducing the dose. As with other antiarrhythmic agents, in the elderly or in ventricular arrhythmia patients with marked previous myocardial damage, the dose of propafenone hydrochloride tablets should be increased more gradually during the initial phase of treatment. The combination of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibition and either cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) deficiency or CYP2D6 inhibition with the simultaneous administration of propafenone may significantly increase the concentration of propafenone and thereby increase the risk of proarrhythmia and other adverse events. Therefore, avoid simultaneous use of propafenone hydrochloride tablets with both a CYP2D6 inhibitor and a CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Initiate therapy with 150 mg given every 8 hours. (2) As needed, uptitrate in 3 to 4 days to 225 to 300 mg every 8 hours. (2) Consider reducing the dose in patients with hepatic impairment, significant widening of the QRS complex, or second- or third-degree AV block. (2)

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Propafenone Hydrochloride Tablets, USP 150 mg is available for oral administration as white to off-white color, round shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet debossed with “PR” above the break line, “OT” below the break line on one side and “150” on other side. Bottles of 100 NDC 59651-256-01 Bottles of 300 NDC 59651-256-33 Propafenone Hydrochloride Tablets, USP 225 mg is available for oral administration as white to off-white color, round shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet debossed with “PR” above the break line, “OT” below the break line on one side and “225” on other side. Bottles of 100 NDC 59651-257-01 Bottles of 300 NDC 59651-257-33 Propafenone Hydrochloride Tablets, USP 300 mg is available for oral administration as white to off-white color, round shaped, biconvex, film-coated tablet debossed with “PR” above the break line, “OT” below the break line on one side and “300” on other side. Bottles of 100 NDC 59651-258-01 Storage Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0c887381-42fe-4f37-858a-d9ffb218dd1c
