Name: Quazepam

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quazepam Tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty in falling asleep, frequent nocturnal awakenings, and/or early morning awakenings. The effectiveness of Quazepam Tablets has been established in placebo-controlled clinical studies of 5 nights duration in acute and chronic insomnia. The sustained effectiveness of Quazepam Tablets has been established in chronic insomnia in a sleep lab (polysomnographic) study of 28 nights duration. Because insomnia is often transient and intermittent, the prolonged administration of Quazepam Tablets is generally not necessary or recommended. Since insomnia may be a symptom of several other disorders, the possibility that the complaint may be related to a condition for which there is a more specific treatment should be considered. Quazepam Tablets, a gamma-aminobutyric (GABAA) agonist, is indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty falling asleep, frequent nocturnal awakenings, and/or early morning awakenings. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest dose effective for the patient: Recommended initial dose is 7.5 mg ( 2 ) Split the 15 mg tablet along the score line to achieve 7.5 mg dose ( 2 ) The elderly and debilitated may be more sensitive to benzodiazepines ( 2 ) 2.1 Dosage Recommendations Use the lowest dose effective for the patient, as important adverse effects of Quazepam Tablets are dose related. The recommended initial dose is 7.5 mg. The 7.5 mg dose can be increased to 15 mg if necessary for efficacy. The 7.5 mg dose can be achieved by splitting the 15 mg tablet along the score line. 2.2 Special Populations Elderly and debilitated patients may be more sensitive to benzodiazepines. 2.3 Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Quazepam Tablets To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue Quazepam Tablets or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Quazepam Tablets, 15 mg, functionally scored, capsule-shaped, light orange, slightly white speckled tablets, impressed with the product identification number 15 on one side of the tablet, and the product name (DORAL) on the other. 15 mg Bottles of 30 NDC 71993-265-30 Store Quazepam Tablets at controlled room temperature 20°-25°C (68°-77°F).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: f7d63f3f-5303-48ab-bce2-35fd62c45799
