Name: Rabeprazole

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in adults for: Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ). Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD ( 1.2 ). Treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 1.3 ). Healing of Duodenal Ulcers ( 1.4 ). Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence ( 1.5 ). Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 1.6 ). In adolescent patients 12 years of age and older for: Short-term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 1.7 ). 1.1 Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for short-term (4 to 8 weeks) treatment in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive or ulcerative gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for maintaining healing and reduction in relapse rates of heartburn symptoms in patients with erosive or ulcerative gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD Maintenance). Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. 1.3 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of daytime and nighttime heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in adults for up to 4 weeks. 1.4 Healing of Duodenal Ulcers in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for short-term (up to four weeks) treatment in the healing and symptomatic relief of duodenal ulcers. Most patients heal within four weeks. 1.5 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin as a three drug regimen, are indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or history within the past 5 years) to eradicate H. pylori . Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. In patients who fail therapy, susceptibility testing should be done. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) and the full prescribing information for clarithromycin ] . 1.6 Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. 1.7 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adolescent Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic GERD in adolescents 12 years of age and above for up to 8 weeks.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Dosage ( 2 ) Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD* studied for 12 months 20 mg once daily* Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after morning meal for up to 4 weeks Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Three Drug Regimen: Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1,000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days. Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older 20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions ( 2 ) : Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Do not chew, crush or split the tablets. For the treatment of duodenal ulcers take rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets after a meal. For Helicobacter pylori eradication take rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets with food. For all other indications rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets can be taken with or without food. Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets in adults and adolescent patients 12 years of age and older. The use of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets is not recommended for use in pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age because the lowest available tablet strength (20 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients. Use another rabeprazole formulation for pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age. Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older * For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. ** If symptoms do not resolve completely after 4 weeks, an additional course of treatment may be considered. *** Most patients heal within 4 weeks; some patients may require additional therapy to achieve healing. Indication Dosage of Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets Treatment Duration Adults Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks* Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks** Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after the morning meal Up to 4 weeks*** Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three medications twice daily with morning and evening meals; it is important that patients comply with the full 7-day regimen [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )] 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs; some patients require divided doses Dosages of 100 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily have been administered As long as clinically indicated Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for up to one year Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Do not chew, crush, or split tablets. For the treatment of duodenal ulcers take rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets after a meal. For Helicobacter pylori eradication take rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets with food. For all other indications rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets can be taken with or without food. Take a missed dose as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to the normal schedule. Do not take two doses at the same time.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Rabeprazole sodium 20 mg is supplied as yellow colored, round, biconvex delayed-release tablets imprinted with '107' on one side in black ink and plain on other side. Bottles of 30 NDC 13668-107-30 Bottles of 90 NDC 13668-107-90 Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F), excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature] . Protect from moisture.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 04e88b86-e1dd-4c56-8359-45fbcc161f7d
