Name: Raloxifene

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Raloxifene hydrochloride is an estrogen agonist/antagonist indicated for: Treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. ( 1.1 ) Reduction in risk of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. ( 1.2 ) Reduction in risk of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast cancer. ( 1.3 ) Important Limitations: Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are not indicated for the treatment of invasive breast cancer, reduction of the risk of recurrence of breast cancer, or reduction of risk of noninvasive breast cancer. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment and Prevention of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women [see Clinical Studies (14.1 , 14.2) ] . 1.2 Reduction in the Risk of Invasive Breast Cancer in Postmenopausal Women with Osteoporosis Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the reduction in risk of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.3 Reduction in the Risk of Invasive Breast Cancer in Postmenopausal Women at High Risk of Invasive Breast Cancer Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the reduction in risk of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women at high risk of invasive breast cancer [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . The effect in the reduction in the incidence of breast cancer was shown in a study of postmenopausal women at high risk for breast cancer with a 5-year planned duration with a median follow-up of 4.3 years [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Twenty-seven percent of the participants received drug for 5 years. The long-term effects and the recommended length of treatment are not known. High risk of breast cancer is defined as at least one breast biopsy showing lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) or atypical hyperplasia, one or more first-degree relatives with breast cancer, or a 5-year predicted risk of breast cancer ≥1.66% (based on the modified Gail model). Among the factors included in the modified Gail model are the following: current age, number of first-degree relatives with breast cancer, number of breast biopsies, age at menarche, nulliparity or age of first live birth. Healthcare professionals can obtain a Gail Model Risk Assessment Tool by dialing 1-800-545-5979. Currently, no single clinical finding or test result can quantify risk of breast cancer with certainty. After an assessment of the risk of developing breast cancer, the decision regarding therapy with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets should be based upon an individual assessment of the benefits and risks. Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets does not eliminate the risk of breast cancer. Patients should have breast exams and mammograms before starting raloxifene hydrochloride tablets and should continue regular breast exams and mammograms in keeping with good medical practice after beginning treatment with raloxifene hydrochloride tablets. Important Limitations of Use for Breast Cancer Risk Reduction There are no data available regarding the effect of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets on invasive breast cancer incidence in women with inherited mutations (BRCA1, BRCA2) to be able to make specific recommendations on the effectiveness of raloxifene hydrochloride tablets. Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are not indicated for the treatment of invasive breast cancer or reduction of the risk of recurrence. Raloxifene hydrochloride tablets are not indicated for the reduction in the risk of noninvasive breast cancer.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 60 mg tablet orally once daily. (2.1) 2.1 Recommended Dosing The recommended dosage is one 60 mg raloxifene hydrochloride tablet daily, which may be administered any time of day without regard to meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . For the indications in risk of invasive breast cancer the optimum duration of treatment is not known [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.4) ] . 2.2 Recommendations for Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation For either osteoporosis treatment or prevention, supplemental calcium and/or vitamin D should be added to the diet if daily intake is inadequate. Postmenopausal women require an average of 1500 mg/day of elemental calcium. Total daily intake of calcium above 1500 mg has not demonstrated additional bone benefits while daily intake above 2000 mg has been associated with increased risk of adverse effects, including hypercalcemia and kidney stones. The recommended intake of vitamin D is 400 to 800 IU daily. Patients at increased risk for vitamin D insufficiency (e.g., over the age of 70 years, nursing home bound, or chronically ill) may need additional vitamin D supplements. Patients with gastrointestinal malabsorption syndromes may require higher doses of vitamin D supplementation and measurement of 25-hydroxyvitamin D should be considered.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied Raloxifene Hydrochloride Tablets USP, 60 mg are white to off-white, elliptical, film-coated tablets debossed with ‘X’ on one side and ‘57’ on other side. Bottles of 30 NDC 16714-213-01 Bottles of 100 NDC 16714-213-02 Bottles of 1,000 NDC 16714-213-03 16.2 Storage and Handling Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. The USP defines controlled room temperature as a temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25°C; and that allows for excursions between 15° and 30°C (59° and 86°F) that are experienced in pharmacies, hospitals, and warehouses.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0f7d1f81-374f-4ad5-aea0-2f97abbe1dbf
