Name: Ramipril

introduction: 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Ramipril capsules USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics. ( 1.1 ). • Ramipril capsules USP are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure post-myocardial infarction ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Hypertension Ramipril capsules USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics. 1.3 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction Ramipril capsules USP are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure within the first few days after sustaining acute myocardial infarction. Administration of ramipril to such patients has been shown to decrease the risk of death (principally cardiovascular death) and to decrease the risks of failure-related hospitalization and progression to severe/resistant heart failure [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.3 ) ].

dosage_text: 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Hypertension: Initial dose is 2.5 mg to 20 mg once daily. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response after 2–4 weeks of treatment. The usual maintenance dose following titration is 2.5 mg to 20 mg daily as a single dose or equally divided doses ( 2.1 ). • Heart failure post-myocardial infarction: Starting dose of 2.5 mg twice daily. If patient becomes hypotensive at this dose, decrease dosage to 1.25 mg twice daily. Increase dose as tolerated toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily, with dosage increases about 3 weeks apart ( 2.3 ). • Dosage adjustment: See respective sections pertaining to dosage adjustment in special situations ( 2.5 ). 2.1 Hypertension The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 2.5 mg once a day. Adjust dose according to blood pressure response. The usual maintenance dosage range is 2.5 mg to 20 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses. In some patients treated once daily, the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval. In such patients, consider an increase in dosage or twice daily administration. If blood pressure is not controlled with ramipril alone, a diuretic can be added. 2.3 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction For the treatment of post-myocardial infarction patients who have shown signs of congestive heart failure, the recommended starting dose of ramipril is 2.5 mg twice daily (5 mg per day). A patient who becomes hypotensive at this dose may be switched to 1.25 mg twice daily. After one week at the starting dose, increase dose (if tolerated) toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily, with dosage increases being about 3 weeks apart. After the initial dose of ramipril, observe the patient under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour. If possible, reduce the dose of any concomitant diuretic as this may diminish the likelihood of hypotension. The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of ramipril does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.5 ) , DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 ) ]. 2.4 General Dosing Information Generally, swallow ramipril capsules whole. The ramipril capsule can also be opened and the contents sprinkled on a small amount (about 4 oz.) of applesauce or mixed in 4 oz. (120 mL) of water or apple juice. To be sure that ramipril is not lost when such a mixture is used, consume the mixture in its entirety. The described mixtures can be pre-prepared and stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or up to 48 hours under refrigeration. Concomitant administration of ramipril with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes, or potassium-sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 ) ] . 2.5 Dosage Adjustment Renal Impairment Establish baseline renal function in patients initiating ramipril capsules. Usual regimens of therapy with ramipril capsule may be followed in patients with estimated creatinine clearance >40 mL/min. However, in patients with worse impairment, 25 % of the usual dose of ramipril capsule is expected to produce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.) ]. Hypertension For patients with hypertension and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ramipril once daily. Dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of 5 mg. Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction For patients with heart failure and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ramipril once daily. The dose may be increased to 1.25 mg twice daily, and up to a maximum dose of 2.5 mg twice daily depending on clinical response and tolerability. Volume Depletion or Renal Artery Stenosis Blood pressure decreases associated with any dose of ramipril depend, in part, on the presence or absence of volume depletion (e.g., past and current diuretic use) or the presence or absence of renal artery stenosis. If such circumstances are suspected to be present, initiate dosing at 1.25 mg once daily. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response.

how_to_use: 16. HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Ramipril Capsules, USP are available in 5 mg and 10 mg hard gelatin capsules. Descriptions of Ramipril Capsules USP are summarized below. Ramipril Capsules USP, 5 mg are: Size "4" capsules with red cap, imprinted with 'LUPIN' in black ink and red body imprinted with 'RAMIPRIL 5 mg' in black ink, containing white to off-white powder. NDC 63187-073-30 bottles of 30 NDC 63187-073-60 bottles of 60 NDC 63187-073-90 bottles of 90 Ramipril Capsules USP, 10 mg are: Size "4" capsules with light blue cap, imprinted with 'LUPIN' in black ink and light blue body imprinted with 'RAMIPRIL 10 mg' in black ink, containing white to off-white powder. NDC 63187-277-30 bottles of 30 NDC 63187-277-60 bottles of 60 NDC 63187-277-90 bottles of 90 Dispense in light-resistant, tight container with child-resistant closure. Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 01da05d8-e72e-4208-bf92-a5cd929f15ab
