Name: Regadenoson

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Regadenoson injection is a pharmacologic stress agent indicated for radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. Regadenoson injection is a pharmacologic stress agent indicated for radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress (1) .

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of regadenoson injection is 5 mL (0.4 mg regadenoson) administered as an intravenous injection within 10 seconds. · Patients should be instructed to avoid consumption of any products containing methylxanthines, including caffeinated coffee, tea or other caffeinated beverages, caffeine-containing drug products, aminophylline and theophylline for at least 12 hours before a scheduled radionuclide MPI [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2) ] Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer regadenoson injection if it contains particulate matter or is discolored. Aminister regadenoson injection as an intravenous injection within 10 seconds into a peripheral vein using a 22 gauge or larger catheter or needle.· Administer a 5 mL saline flush immediately after the injection of regadenoson.· Administer the radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging agent 10–20 seconds after the saline flush. The radionuclide may be injected directly into the same catheter as regadenoson injection. · The recommended dose of regadenoson injection is 5 mL (0.4 mg regadenoson) administered as an intravenous injection within 10 seconds; followed immediately by saline flush and radiopharmaceutical (2) .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Regadenoson injection is supplied as a sterile, preservative-free clear colorless solution containing 0.08 mg/mL regadenoson in the following package: Single-dose 5 mL pre-filled plastic syringes with luer-lock fitting (NDC 43598-616-11). Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F); [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 03ef6420-8190-a404-f7f6-def1864a77de
