Name: Reslizumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CINQAIR ® is indicated for the add-on maintenance treatment of patients with severe asthma aged 18 years and older with an eosinophilic phenotype [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Limitation of Use: CINQAIR is not indicated for treatment of other eosinophilic conditions. CINQAIR is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or status asthmaticus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . CINQAIR is an interleukin-5 antagonist monoclonal antibody (IgG4 kappa) indicated for add-on maintenance treatment of patients with severe asthma aged 18 years and older, and with an eosinophilic phenotype ( 1 ). Limitations of Use : CINQAIR is not indicated for: treatment of other eosinophilic conditions ( 1 ) relief of acute bronchospasm or status asthmaticus ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION CINQAIR is for intravenous infusion only. Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus ( 2.1 ) CINQAIR should be administered by a healthcare professional prepared to manage anaphylaxis ( 2.2 ) Recommended dosage regimen is 3 mg/kg once every 4 weeks by intravenous infusion over 20-50 minutes ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing CINQAIR is for intravenous infusion only. Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus. The recommended dosage regimen is 3 mg/kg once every 4 weeks administered by intravenous infusion over 20-50 minutes [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Discontinue the infusion immediately if the patient experiences a severe systemic reaction, including anaphylaxis [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 2.2 Preparation and Administration Instructions CINQAIR is provided as a solution in a single-use vial for intravenous infusion only and should be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique as follows: Preparation of intravenous infusion Remove CINQAIR from the refrigerator. To minimize foaming, do not shake CINQAIR. Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. CINQAIR solution is clear to slightly hazy/opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow liquid. Since CINQAIR is a protein, proteinaceous particles may be present in the solution that appear as translucent to white, amorphous particulates. Do not administer if discolored or if other foreign particulate matter is present. Withdraw the proper volume of CINQAIR from the vial(s), based on the recommended weight-based dosage. Discard any unused portion. Dispense syringe contents slowly into an infusion bag containing 50 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP to minimize foaming of CINQAIR (CINQAIR is compatible with polyvinylchloride (PVC) or polyolefin infusion bags). Gently invert the bag to mix the solution. Do not shake. Do not mix or dilute with other drugs. Administer immediately after preparation. If not used immediately, store diluted solutions of CINQAIR in the refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) or at room temperature up to 25ºC (77ºF), protected from light, for up to 16 hours. The time between preparation of CINQAIR and administration should not exceed 16 hours. Administration instructions CINQAIR should be administered by a healthcare professional prepared to manage anaphylaxis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . If refrigerated prior to administration, allow the diluted CINQAIR solution to reach room temperature. Use an infusion set with an in-line, low protein-binding filter (pore size of 0.2 micron). CINQAIR is compatible with polyethersulfone (PES), polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), nylon, and cellulose acetate in-line infusion filters. Infuse the diluted solution of CINQAIR intravenously, over a 20 to 50 minute period. Infusion time may vary depending on the total volume to be infused as based upon patient weight. Do not infuse CINQAIR concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other agents. No physical or biochemical compatibility studies have been conducted to evaluate the co-administration of CINQAIR with other agents. Observe the patient over the infusion and for an appropriate period of time following infusion. Upon completion of the infusion, flush the intravenous administration set with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP to ensure that all CINQAIR has been administered.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING CINQAIR (reslizumab) injection, 100 mg/10 mL (10 mg/mL), is supplied as a preservative-free, sterile, clear to slightly hazy/opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow solution in single-use vials. The following packaging configuration is available: NDC 59310-610-31: 100 mg/10 mL (10 mg/mL) single-use vial. Storage and Stability: Refrigerate at 2 ºC to 8ºC (36°F to 46°F). Do not freeze. Do not shake. Protect the vials from light by storing in the original package until time of use.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 053b9158-2a5b-48b9-bf47-5fa78a35ec33
