Name: Rilonacept

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ARCALYST (rilonacept) is an interleukin-1 blocker indicated for: Treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS), and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) in adults and children 12 years and older ( 1.1 , 14.1 ) Maintenance of remission of Deficiency of Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist (DIRA) in adults and pediatric patients weighing 10 kg or more ( 1.2 , 14.2 ) Treatment of recurrent pericarditis (RP) and reduction in risk of recurrence in adults and children 12 years and older ( 1.3 , 14.3 ) 1.1 Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes, Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome and Muckle-Wells Syndrome ARCALYST ® (rilonacept) is an interleukin-1 blocker indicated for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS), and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older. 1.2 Deficiency of IL-1 Receptor Antagonist ARCALYST is indicated for the maintenance of remission of Deficiency of Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist (DIRA) in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 10 kg. 1.3 Recurrent Pericarditis ARCALYST is indicated for the treatment of recurrent pericarditis (RP) and reduction in risk of recurrence in adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer by subcutaneous injection ( 2.1 ) CAPS, FCAS, MWS, and RP ( 2.2 ): Adults: – Loading dose: 320 mg, delivered as two 160 mg (2 mL) injections. – Maintenance dose: 160 mg (2 mL) injection once weekly. Pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years: – Loading dose: 4.4 mg/kg, up to a maximum of 320 mg, delivered as 1 or 2 injections (not to exceed 2 mL/injection). – Maintenance dose: 2.2 mg/kg, up to a maximum of 160 mg (2 mL) injection, once weekly. DIRA ( 2.3 ): Adults and pediatric patients weighing 10 kg or more: – 4.4 mg/kg up to a maximum of 320 mg, delivered as 1 or 2 injections (2 mL/injection) once weekly. 2.1 General Dosing Information ARCALYST is for subcutaneous use only. 2.2 Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes, Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome, Muckle-Wells Syndrome and Recurrent Pericarditis Adults : Initiate treatment with a loading dose of 320 mg delivered as two, 2-mL subcutaneous injections of 160 mg each, administered on the same day at two different injection sites. Continue dosing with a once-weekly injection of 160 mg administered as a single, 2-mL subcutaneous injection. Pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years : Initiate treatment with a loading dose of 4.4 mg/kg, up to a maximum dose of 320 mg, administered as one or two subcutaneous injections, not to exceed single-injection volume of 2 mL per injection site. If the initial dose is given as two injections, administer on the same day at two different sites. Continue dosing with a once-weekly injection of 2.2 mg/kg, up to a maximum of 160 mg, administered as a single subcutaneous injection, up to 2 mL. If a once-weekly dose is missed, instruct the patient to administer the injection within 7 days from the missed dose and then resume the patient's original schedule. If the missed dose is not administered within 7 days, instruct the patient to administer the dose, starting a new schedule based on this date. 2.3 Deficiency of IL-1 Receptor Antagonist Adults : The recommended dose of ARCALYST is 320 mg, once weekly, administered as two subcutaneous injections on the same day at two different sites with a maximum single-injection volume of 2 mL. ARCALYST should not be given more often than once weekly. Pediatric patients weighing 10 kg or more : The recommended dose of ARCALYST is 4.4 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 320 mg), once weekly, administered as one or two subcutaneous injections with a maximum single-injection volume of 2 mL. If the dose is given as two injections, administer both on the same day, each one at a different site. When switching from another IL-1 blocker, discontinue the IL-1 blocker and begin ARCALYST treatment at the time of the next dose [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.4 Preparation for Administration Reconstitute each single-dose vial of ARCALYST with 2.3 mL of preservative-free Sterile Water for Injection, USP (supplied separately) prior to subcutaneous administration of the drug. 2.5 Administration Using aseptic technique, withdraw 2.3 mL of preservative-free Sterile Water for Injection through an 18-gauge, 1- or 1½-inch needle attached to a 3-mL syringe and inject the preservative-free Sterile Water for Injection, USP, into the drug product vial for reconstitution. The needle and syringe used for reconstitution with preservative-free Sterile Water for Injection, USP, should then be discarded and should not be used for subcutaneous injections. After the addition of preservative-free Sterile Water for Injection, USP, reconstitute the vial contents by shaking the vial for approximately one minute and then allowing it to sit for one minute. The resulting 80mg/mL solution is sufficient to allow a withdrawal volume of up to 2 mL for subcutaneous administration. The reconstituted solution is viscous, clear, colorless to pale yellow, and free from particulates. Prior to injection, inspect the reconstituted solution for any discoloration or particulate matter. Discard the solution if either is observed. Using aseptic technique, withdraw the recommended dose volume, up to 2 mL (160 mg), of the solution with a new 18-gauge, 1- or 1½-inch needle attached to a new 3-mL syringe. For the subcutaneous injection, replace the needle with a new 26-gauge, ½-inch needle. EACH VIAL SHOULD BE USED FOR A SINGLE DOSE ONLY. Discard the vial after withdrawal of drug. After reconstitution, ARCALYST may be kept at room temperature, but keep it protected from light, and use the solution within three hours after reconstitution. Discard unused portions of ARCALYST. Rotate the sites for subcutaneous injection, such as the abdomen, thigh, or upper arm. Injections should never be administered at sites that are bruised, red, tender, or hard.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING ARCALYST (rilonacept) for injection is supplied as a sterile, white to off-white, preservative-free, lyophilized powder in single-dose vials. Each 220 mg vial of ARCALYST is supplied in a carton containing one vial (NDC 73604-914-01) or four vials (NDC 73604-914-04). Store refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) in the original carton to protect from light. Do not use beyond the date stamped on the label. After reconstitution, ARCALYST may be kept at room temperature, protected from light [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: ad965f38-dd22-4607-a673-2fb92f3b527a
