Name: Risedronate

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets are bisphosphonate in a delayed-release formulation and is indicated for treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis (1.1) Limitations of Use Optimal duration of use has not been determined. For patients at low-risk for fracture, consider drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use (1.2). 1.1 Postmenopausal Osteoporosis Risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. In postmenopausal women, risedronate sodium has been shown to reduce the incidence of vertebral fractures and a composite endpoint of nonvertebral osteoporosis-related fractures [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Important Limitations of Use The optimal duration of use has not been determined. The safety and effectiveness of risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets for the treatment of osteoporosis are based on clinical data of one year duration. All patients on bisphosphonate therapy should have the need for continued therapy re-evaluated on a periodic basis. Patients at low-risk for fracture should be considered for drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use. Patients who discontinue therapy should have their risk for fracture re-evaluated periodically.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One 35 mg delayed-release tablet once-a-week (2.1) Instruct patients to: • Take risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets in the morning immediately following breakfast with at least 4 ounces of plain water (2.2) • Avoid lying down for 30 minutes after taking risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets (2.2) • Take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate (2.3) 2.1 Treatment of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis [ see Indications and Usage (1.1) ] The recommended regimen is: • one 35 mg delayed-release tablet orally, taken once-a-week [see Indications and Usage (1.1)] 2.2 Important Administration Instructions Instruct patients to do the following: • Take risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets in the morning immediately following breakfast. Risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets should be taken immediately following breakfast and not under fasting conditions because of a higher risk of abdominal pain if taken before breakfast when fasting. • Swallow risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets whole while in an upright position and with at least 4 ounces of plain water to facilitate delivery to the stomach. Avoid lying down for 30 minutes after taking the medication [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Do not chew, cut, or crush risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets. 2.3 Recommendations for Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation Instruct patients to take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] and to take calcium supplements, antacids, magnesium-based supplements or laxatives, and iron preparations at a different time of the day as they interfere with the absorption of risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets. 2.4 Administration Instructions for Missed Doses If the once-weekly dose is missed, instruct patients to take one tablet on the morning after they remember and return to taking one tablet once-a-week, as originally scheduled on their chosen day. Patients should not take two tablets on the same day.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Risedronate sodium delayed-release tablets are: 35 mg, oval-shaped, yellow colored coated tablets with ‘S’ imprinted on one side and plain on the other side. NDC 63304-440-09 Blister pack of 4 tablets. Store at 20º - 25º C (68º - 77º F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1d9e520b-2fa6-4603-b397-f0fc24fae775
