Name: Spinosad

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spinosad Topical Suspension is a pediculicide indicated for the topical treatment of head lice infestations in adult and pediatric patients 6 months of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Spinosad Topical Suspension is a scabicide indicated for the topical treatment of scabies infestations in adult and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Head Lice Infestations Spinosad Topical Suspension is indicated for the topical treatment of head lice infestations in adult and pediatric patients 6 months of age and older. Adjunctive Measures for Head Lice Infestations Spinosad Topical Suspension should be used in the context of an overall lice management program: Wash in hot water or dry-clean all recently worn clothing, hats, used bedding and towels. Wash personal care items such as combs, brushes and hair clips in hot water. A fine-tooth comb or special nit comb may be used to remove dead lice and nits. 1.2 Scabies Infestations Spinosad Topical Suspension is indicated for the topical treatment of scabies infestations in adult and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older. Adjunctive Measures for Scabies Infestations Wash in hot water or dry-clean any bedding, clothing and towels used by anyone having scabies.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only. Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) Treatment of head lice infestations ( 2.2 ): Shake bottle well Apply a sufficient amount to cover dry scalp, then apply to dry hair Rinse off with warm water after 10 minutes Repeat treatment only if live lice are seen 7 days after first treatment Treatment of scabies infestations ( 2.3 ): Shake bottle well Apply product to skin by rubbing it in to completely cover the body from the neck down to the soles of the feet Patients with balding scalp should also apply product to the scalp, hairline, temples, and forehead Allow to absorb in the skin and dry for 10 minutes before getting dressed Leave on the skin for at least 6 hours before showering or bathing 2.1 Important Administration Instructions For topical use only. Spinosad Topical Suspension is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Avoid contact with eyes. If Spinosad Topical Suspension gets in or near the eyes, rinse thoroughly with water. 2.2 Treatment of Head Lice Infestations Shake bottle well. Apply a sufficient amount of Spinosad Topical Suspension to cover dry scalp, then apply to dry hair. Depending on hair length, apply up to 120 mL (one bottle) to adequately cover scalp and hair. Leave on for 10 minutes, then thoroughly rinse off with warm water. Wash hands after use. If live lice are seen 7 days after the first treatment, a second treatment should be applied. Apply Spinosad Topical Suspension on pediatric patient only under direct supervision of an adult [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.3 Treatment of Scabies Infestations Shake bottle well. Apply a sufficient amount of Spinosad Topical Suspension to skin to completely cover the body from the neck to the toes (including the soles of the feet). For patients with balding scalp, also apply product to the scalp, hairline, temples, and forehead. Allow to absorb into the skin and dry for 10 minutes before getting dressed. Leave on the skin for at least 6 hours before showering or bathing. Apply Spinosad Topical Suspension on pediatric patient only under direct supervision of an adult .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Spinosad Topical Suspension, 0.9% w/w; each gram contains 9 mg of spinosad in a slightly opaque (white soft particles may be visible), light orange-colored, viscous liquid, supplied in 4 oz (120 mL) high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles. NDC 52246-570-04 Storage and Handling Store at 25° C (77° F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30° C (59° to 86° F).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 0d6e2507-3669-441e-b5ba-86087fd2955d
