Name: Tacrolimus

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus extended-release capsules is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney transplant patients in combination with other immunosuppressants in adult patients who can swallow capsules intact [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ), ( 14.2 )] . Pediatric use information is approved for Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s ASTAGRAF XL (tacrolimus extended-release capsules). However, due to Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Tacrolimus extended-release capsules is a calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney transplant patients in combination with other immunosuppressants in adult patients who can swallow capsules intact. ( 1 , 14.1 , 14.2 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Capsules must be taken whole. ( 2.1 ) Take consistently every morning at the same time on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before a meal or at least 2 hours after a meal. ( 2.1 ) Avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice or alcohol. ( 2.1 ) African-American patients and patients with severe hepatic impairment may require dosing adjustments. ( 2.3 ) Frequent monitoring of trough concentrations is recommended. ( 2.4 ) For complete dosing information, see Full Prescribing Information. MMF = Mycophenolate mofetil Recommended Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules Initial Dosage Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range ADULT With basiliximab, MMF and steroids 0.15 mg/kg to 0.2 mg/kg once daily prior to reperfusion or within 48 hours of completion of transplant Month 1: 7 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL Month 2 to Month 6: 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL More than 6 Months: 5 ng/mL to 10 ng/mL With MMF and steroids, without basiliximab induction First dose (pre-operative): 0.1 mg/kg, within 12 hours prior to reperfusion Subsequent doses (post-operative): 0.2 mg/kg once daily at least 4 hours after pre-operative dose and within 12 hours after reperfusion Month 1: 10 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL Month 2 to Month 6: 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL More than 6 Months: 5 ng/mL to 10 ng/mL 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Tacrolimus extended-release capsules should not be used without the supervision by a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Tacrolimus extended-release capsules is not interchangeable or substitutable for tacrolimus extended-release tablets, tacrolimus immediate-release capsules or tacrolimus for oral suspension. Under or overexposure to tacrolimus may result in graft rejection or other serious adverse reactions. Changes between tacrolimus immediate-release and extended-release dosage forms must occur under physician supervision [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Advise patients to swallow tacrolimus extended-release capsules whole with liquid; patients must not chew, divide, or crush the capsules. Tacrolimus extended-release capsules should be taken consistently every morning at the same time to ensure consistent and maximum possible drug exposure, on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before a meal, or at least 2 hours after a meal [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. If a dose is missed, the dose may be taken up to 14 hours after the scheduled time (i.e., for a missed 8:00 AM dose, a dose may be taken by 10:00 PM). Beyond the 14-hour time frame, the patient should wait until the usual scheduled time the following morning to take the next regular daily dose. Instruct the patient not to double the next dose. Advise patients to avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice or alcoholic beverages while taking tacrolimus extended-release capsules [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended for all patients receiving tacrolimus extended-release capsules [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Kidney Transplant Patients Table 1 includes the recommended starting tacrolimus extended-release capsules dosages and whole blood trough concentration ranges; the observed trough concentrations are shown in another section of the Full Prescribing Information [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Titrate the tacrolimus extended-release capsules dosage based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability, and to achieve target trough concentration ranges [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Table 1: Recommended Starting Daily Dosage Regimen of Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules MMF = mycophenolate mofetil Recommended Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules Initial Dosage* Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range ADULT With basiliximab, MMF and steroids 0.15 mg/kg to 0.2 mg/kg once daily prior to reperfusion or within 48 hours of completion of transplant • Month 1: 7 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL • Month 2 to Month 6: 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL • More than 6 Months: 5 ng/mL to 10 ng/mL With MMF and steroids, without basiliximab induction • First dose (pre-operative): 0.1 mg/kg, within 12 hours prior to reperfusion • Subsequent doses (post-operative): 0.2 mg/kg once daily at least 4 hours after pre-operative dose and within 12 hours after reperfusion • Month 1: 10 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL • Month 2 to Month 6: 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL • More than 6 Months: 5 ng/mL to 10 ng/mL Pediatric use information is approved for Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s ASTAGRAF XL (tacrolimus extended-release capsules). However, due to Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Dosage Modifications for African-American Patients, Patients with Hepatic Impairment, and Drug Interactions African-American patients, compared to Caucasian patients, may need to be titrated to higher tacrolimus extended-release capsules dosages to attain comparable trough concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh ≥ 10) may require a lower starting dosage of tacrolimus extended-release capsules, due to the reduced clearance and prolonged half-life [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Dose adjustments of tacrolimus extended-release capsules may be necessary when administered concomitantly with CYP3A inducers or CYP3A inhibitors or cannabidiol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 , 5.15 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 , 7.3 )]. 2.4 Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Measure tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations at least two times on separate days during the first week after initiation of dosing and after a change in dosage, after a change in co-administration of CYP3A4 inducers and/or inhibitors or cannabidiol [see Drug Interactions (7.2 , 7.3 )] , or after a change in renal or hepatic function. When interpreting measured concentrations, consider that the time to achieve tacrolimus steady state is approximately 7 days after initiating or changing the tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations using a validated assay [e.g., immunoassays or high performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection (HPLC/MS/MS)]. The immunosuppressive activity of tacrolimus is mainly due to the parent drug rather than to its metabolites. Immunoassays may react with metabolites as well as the parent drug. Therefore, whole blood tacrolimus trough concentrations obtained with immunoassays may be numerically higher than concentrations obtained with an assay using HPLC/MS/MS. Comparison of the whole blood tacrolimus trough concentrations of patients to those described in the prescribing information and other published literature must be made with knowledge of the assay method(s) employed.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Tacrolimus extended-release capsules are supplied as listed in Table 19 . Table 19: Strengths of Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules 0.5 mg Oblong capsule with opaque yellowish pink cap and opaque light orange body. Capsule is branded with dull red “SD-TC” on capsule body and dull red “0.5 mg” on the capsule cap. Blister carton packed with an aluminum foil bag containing 5 blister cards of 10 capsules on each card. (NDC 71432-2001-1). 1 mg Oblong capsule with opaque light yellow cap and opaque light orange body. Capsule is branded with dull red “SD-TC” on capsule body and dull red “1 mg” on the capsule cap. Blister carton packed with an aluminum foil bag containing 5 blister cards of 10 capsules on each card. (NDC 71432-2002-1) 5 mg Oblong capsule with an opaque red-orange cap and opaque orange body. Capsule is branded with dull red “SD-TC” on capsule body and dull red “5 mg” on the capsule cap. Blister carton packed with an aluminum foil bag containing 5 blister cards of 10 capsules on each card. (NDC 71432-2003-1) Store and Dispense Store at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted from 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 08cf2861-2483-405d-a872-a88a5c235f9a
