Name: Teriflunomide

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Teriflunomide tablets are indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults. Teriflunomide tablets are a pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults. ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of teriflunomide tablets is 7 mg or 14 mg orally once daily. Teriflunomide tablets can be taken with or without food. Monitoring to Assess Safety: • Obtain transaminase and bilirubin levels within 6 months before initiation of teriflunomide tablets therapy. Monitor ALT levels at least monthly for six months after starting teriflunomide tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • Obtain a complete blood cell count (CBC) within 6 months before the initiation of treatment with teriflunomide tablets. Further monitoring should be based on signs and symptoms of infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Prior to initiating teriflunomide tablets, screen patients for latent tuberculosis infection with a tuberculin skin test or blood test for mycobacterium tuberculosis infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Exclude pregnancy prior to initiation of treatment with teriflunomide tablets in females of reproductive potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Check blood pressure before start of teriflunomide tablets treatment and periodically thereafter [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . 7 mg or 14 mg orally once daily, with or without food. ( 2 )

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Teriflunomide Tablets are available containing 7 mg or 14 mg of teriflunomide. The 7 mg tablets are light blue, film-coated, round, unscored tablets debossed with A on one side and 7 on the other side. They are available as follows: NDC 0378-0627-93 bottles of 30 tablets The 14 mg tablets are light yellow, film-coated, round, unscored tablets debossed with A on one side and 14 on the other side. They are available as follows: NDC 0378-0628-93 bottles of 30 tablets Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP using a child-resistant closure. PHARMACIST: Dispense a Medication Guide with each prescription.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1824aae5-58af-43da-8231-435c8f118bc0
