Name: Teriparatide

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Teriparatide injection is indicated: For the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture (defined herein as having a history of osteoporotic fracture or multiple risk factors for fracture) or who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, teriparatide injection reduces the risk of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures. To increase bone mass in men with primary or hypogonadal osteoporosis at high risk for fracture or who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. For the treatment of men and women with osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy (daily dosage equivalent to 5 mg or greater of prednisone) at high risk for fracture or who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. Teriparatide injection is a parathyroid hormone analog, (PTH 1-34), indicated for: Treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy ( 1 ) Increase of bone mass in men with primary or hypogonadal osteoporosis at high risk for fracture or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy ( 1 ) Treatment of men and women with osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy at high risk for fracture or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended dosage is 20 mcg subcutaneously once a day ( 2.1 ) Consider supplemental calcium and Vitamin D based on individual patient needs ( 2.1 ) Administer as a subcutaneous injection into the thigh or abdominal region ( 2.2 ) Administer initially under circumstances in which the patient can sit or lie down if symptoms of orthostatic hypotension occur ( 2.2 ) Use of teriparatide for more than 2 years during a patient's lifetime should only be considered if a patient remains at or has returned to having a high risk for fracture ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage is 20 mcg given subcutaneously once a day. Instruct patients to take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if daily dietary intake is inadequate. 2.2 Administration Instructions Administer teriparatide injection as a subcutaneous injection into the thigh or abdominal region. Teriparatide injection is not approved for intravenous or intramuscular use. Teriparatide injection should be administered initially under circumstances in which the patient can sit or lie down if symptoms of orthostatic hypotension occur [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration (teriparatide injection is a clear and colorless liquid). Do not use if solid particles appear or if the solution is cloudy or colored. Patients and/or caregivers who administer teriparatide injection should receive appropriate training and instruction on the proper use of the teriparatide injection delivery device from a qualified health professional. 2.3 Recommended Treatment Duration Use of teriparatide for more than 2 years during a patient's lifetime should only be considered if a patient remains at or has returned to having a high risk for fracture [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING 16.1 How Supplied Teriparatide injection is a colorless solution, available as single-patient-use prefilled pens in the following package size: 560 mcg/2.24 mL (250 mcg/mL) NDC 47781-652-89. 16.2 Storage and Handling The teriparatide injection delivery device should be stored under refrigeration at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) at all times. Recap the delivery device when not in use to protect the cartridge from physical damage and light. When using teriparatide injection, minimize the time out of the refrigerator; deliver the dose immediately following removal from the refrigerator. Do not freeze. Do not use teriparatide injection if it has been frozen. Throw away the device 28 days after first use. 16.1 How Supplied Teriparatide injection is a colorless solution, available as single-patient-use prefilled pens in the following package size: 560 mcg/2.24 mL (250 mcg/mL) NDC 47781-652-89.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 1b007339-dd0d-f019-5e0a-9b1b0f75011c
