Name: Tinidazole

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tinidazole Tablet is a nitroimidazole antimicrobial indicated for: Trichomoniasis ( 1.1 ) Giardiasis: in patients age 3 and older ( 1.2 ) Amebiasis: in patients age 3 and older ( 1.3 ) Bacterial Vaginosis: in adult women ( 1.4, 8.1 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Tinidazole Tablets and other antibacterial drugs, Tinidazole Tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria (1.5) . 1.1 Trichomoniasis Tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of trichomoniasis caused by Trichomonas vaginalis. The organism should be identified by appropriate diagnostic procedures. Because trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted disease with potentially serious sequelae, partners of infected patients should be treated simultaneously in order to prevent re-infection [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Giardiasis Tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of giardiasis caused by Giardia duodenalis (also termed G. lamblia ) in both adults and pediatric patients older than three years of age [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.3 Amebiasis Tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of intestinal amebiasis and amebic liver abscess caused by Entamoeba histolytica in both adults and pediatric patients older than three years of age. It is not indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic cyst passage [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 , 14.4 )]. 1.4 Bacterial Vaginosis Tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis (formerly referred to as Haemophilus vaginitis, Gardnerella vaginitis, nonspecific vaginitis, or anaerobic vaginosis) in adult women [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )] . Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis such as Trichomonas vaginalis , Chlamydia trachomatis , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Candida albicans and Herpes simplex virus should be ruled out. 1.5 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Tinidazole Tablets and other antibacterial drugs, Tinidazole Tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections, that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Trichomoniasis: a single 2 g oral dose taken with food. Treat sexual partners with the same dose and at the same time ( 2.3 ) Giardiasis: Adults: a single 2 g dose taken with food. Pediatric patients older than three years of age: a single dose of 50 mg/kg (up to 2 g) with food ( 2.4 ) Amebiasis, Intestinal: Adults: 2 g per day for 3 days with food. Pediatric patients older than three years of age: 50 mg/kg/day (up to 2 g per day) for 3 days with food ( 2.5 ). Amebic liver abscess: Adults: 2 g per day for 3-5 days with food. Pediatric patients older than three years of age: 50 mg/kg/day (up to 2 g per day) for 3-5 days with food ( 2.5 ) Bacterial vaginosis: Adult women: 2 g once daily for 2 days taken with food, or 1 g once daily for 5 days taken with food ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Dosing Instructions It is advisable to take tinidazole with food to minimize the incidence of epigastric discomfort and other gastrointestinal side-effects. Food does not affect the oral bioavailability of tinidazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Alcoholic beverages should be avoided when taking tinidazole and for 3 days afterwards [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 2.2 Compounding of the Oral Suspension For those unable to swallow tablets, tinidazole tablets may be crushed in artificial cherry syrup to be taken with food. Procedure for Extemporaneous Pharmacy Compounding of the Oral Suspension: Pulverize four 500 mg oral tablets with a mortar and pestle. Add approximately 10 mL of cherry syrup to the powder and mix until smooth. Transfer the suspension to a graduated amber container. Use several small rinses of cherry syrup to transfer any remaining drug in the mortar to the final suspension for a final volume of 30 mL. The suspension of crushed tablets in artificial cherry syrup is stable for 7 days at room temperature. When this suspension is used, it should be shaken well before each administration. 2.3 Trichomoniasis The recommended dose in both females and males is a single 2 g oral dose taken with food. Since trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted disease, sexual partners should be treated with the same dose and at the same time. 2.4 Giardiasis The recommended dose in adults is a single 2 g dose taken with food. In pediatric patients older than three years of age, the recommended dose is a single dose of 50 mg/kg (up to 2 g) with food. 2.5 Amebiasis Intestinal: The recommended dose in adults is a 2 g dose per day for 3 days taken with food. In pediatric patients older than three years of age, the recommended dose is 50 mg/kg/day (up to 2 g per day) for 3 days with food. Amebic Liver Abscess: The recommended dose in adults is a 2 g dose per day for 3-5 days taken with food. In pediatric patients older than three years of age, the recommended dose is 50 mg/kg/day (up to 2 g per day) for 3-5 days with food. There are limited pediatric data on durations of therapy exceeding 3 days, although a small number of children were treated for 5 days without additional reported adverse reactions. Children should be closely monitored when treatment durations exceed 3 days. 2.6 Bacterial Vaginosis The recommended dose is a 2 g oral dose once daily for 2 days taken with food or a 1 g oral dose once daily for 5 days taken with food. The use of tinidazole in pregnant patients has not been studied for bacterial vaginosis.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Tinidazole Tablets USP 250 mg are pink color, circular shaped film coated scored tablets with "250" debossed on one side and " T│P" on the other side, supplied in bottles with child-resistant caps as: NDC 64980-426-02 Bottle of 20 Tinidazole Tablets USP 500 mg are pink color, capsule shaped film coated scored tablets with "500" debossed on one side and " T│P" on the other side, supplied in bottles with child-resistant caps as: NDC 64980-427-12 Bottle of 12 Storage: Store at controlled room temperature 20-25° C (68-77° F); excursions permitted to 15-30° C (59-86° F) [see USP]. Protect contents from light.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 32167dd7-5d37-457b-9b00-cd735de6b060
