Name: Tocilizumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TOFIDENCE™ (tocilizumab-bavi) is an interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor antagonist indicated for treatment of: Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.1 ) Adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs (DMARDs). Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) ( 1.2 ) Adult patients with giant cell arteritis. Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (PJIA) ( 1.3 ) Patients 2 years of age and older with active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) ( 1.4 ) Patients 2 years of age and older with active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) ( 1.5 ) Hospitalized adult patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) who are receiving systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen, non-invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). 1.1 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) TOFIDENCE (tocilizumab-bavi) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more Disease-Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs (DMARDs). 1.2 Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) TOFIDENCE™ (tocilizumab-bavi) is indicated for the treatment of giant cell arteritis (GCA) in adult patients. 1.3 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (PJIA) TOFIDENCE™ (tocilizumab-bavi) is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.4 Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) TOFIDENCE™ (tocilizumab-bavi) is indicated for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.5 Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) TOFIDENCE™ (tocilizumab-bavi) is indicated for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in hospitalized adult patients who are receiving systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen, non-invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO).

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For RA, pJIA and sJIA, TOFIDENCE may be used alone or in combination with methotrexate; and in RA, other non-biologic DMARDs may be used. ( 2 ) General Administration and Dosing Information ( 2.1 ) RA, GCA, PJIA and SJIA - It is recommended that TOFIDENCE not be initiated in patients with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below 2000 per mm 3 , platelet count below 100,000 per mm 3 , or ALT or AST above 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). ( 5.3 , 5.4 ) COVID-19 - It is recommended that TOFIDENCE not be initiated in patients with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below 1000 per mm3 , platelet count below 50,000 mm3 , or ALT or AST above 10 times ULN ( 5.3 , 5.4 ). In RA or COVID-19 patients, TOFIDENCE doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are not recommended. ( 2.2 , 12.3 ) In GCA patients, TOFIDENCE doses exceeding 600 mg per infusion are not recommended. ( 2.3 , 12.3 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis ( 2.2 ) Recommended Adult Intravenous Dosage: When used in combination with non-biologic DMARDs or as monotherapy the recommended starting dose is 4 mg per kg every 4 weeks followed by an increase to 8 mg per kg every 4 weeks based on clinical response. Giant Cell Arteritis ( 2.3 ) Recommended Adult Intravenous Dosage: The recommended dose is 6 mg per kg every 4 weeks in combination with a tapering course of glucocorticoids. TOFIDENCE can be used alone following discontinuation of glucocorticoids. Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis ( 2.4 ) Recommended Intravenous PJIA Dosage Every 4 Weeks Patients less than 30 kg weight 10 mg per kg Patients at or above 30 kg weight 8 mg per kg Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis ( 2.5 ) Recommended Intravenous SJIA Dosage Every 2 Weeks Patients less than 30 kg weight 12 mg per kg Patients at or above 30 kg weight 8 mg per kg Coronavirus Disease 2019 ( 2.6 ) The recommended dosage of TOFIDENCE for adult patients with COVID-19 is 8 mg per kg administered by a 60-minute intravenous infusion. Administration of Intravenous Formulation ( 2.7 ) For patients with RA, GCA, COVID-19, PJIA, and SJIA patients at or above 30 kg, dilute to 100 mL in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP for intravenous infusion using aseptic technique. For PJIA and SJIA patients less than 30 kg, dilute to 50 mL in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP for intravenous infusion using aseptic technique. Administer as a single intravenous drip infusion over 1 hour; do not administer as bolus or push. Dose Modifications ( 2.8 ) Recommended for management of certain dose-related laboratory changes including elevated liver enzymes, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. 2.1 General Considerations for Administration Not Recommended for Concomitant Use with Biological DMARDs Tocilizumab products have not been studied in combination with biological DMARDs such as TNF antagonists, IL-1R antagonists, anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies and selective co-stimulation modulators because of the possibility of increased immunosuppression and increased risk of infection. Avoid using TOFIDENCE with biological DMARDs. Baseline Laboratory Evaluation Prior to Treatment Obtain and assess baseline complete blood count (CBC) and liver function tests prior to treatment. RA, GCA, PJIA and SJIA – It is recommended that TOFIDENCE not be initiated in patients with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below 2000 per mm 3 , platelet count below 100,000 per mm 3 , or ALT or AST above 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) ] . COVID-19 - It is recommended that TOFIDENCE not be initiated in patients with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) below 1000 per mm3 , platelet count below 50,000 mm3 , or ALT or AST above 10 times ULN [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) ] 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Rheumatoid Arthritis TOFIDENCE may be used as monotherapy or concomitantly with methotrexate or other non-biologic DMARDs as an intravenous infusion. Recommended Intravenous Dosage Regimen: The recommended dosage of TOFIDENCE for adult patients given as a 60-minute single intravenous drip infusion is 4 mg per kg every 4 weeks followed by an increase to 8 mg per kg every 4 weeks based on clinical response. Reduction of dose from 8 mg per kg to 4 mg per kg is recommended for management of certain dose-related laboratory changes including elevated liver enzymes, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) , and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are not recommended in RA patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When transitioning from intravenous therapy with TOFIDENCE to subcutaneous therapy with another tocilizumab product, administer the first subcutaneous dose instead of the next scheduled intravenous dose. Interruption of dose is recommended for management of certain dose-related laboratory changes including elevated liver enzymes, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) . 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Giant Cell Arteritis Recommended Intravenous Dosage Regimen: The recommended dosage of TOFIDENCE for adult patients given as a 60-minute single intravenous drip infusion is 6 mg per kg every 4 weeks in combination with tapering course of glucocorticoids. TOFIDENCE can be used alone following discontinuation of glucocorticoids. Interruption of dosing may be needed for management of dose-related laboratory abnormalities including elevated liver enzymes, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) ]. Doses exceeding 600 mg per infusion are not recommended in GCA patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When transitioning from intravenous therapy with TOFIDENCE to subcutaneous therapy with another tocilizumab product, administer the first subcutaneous dose instead of the next scheduled intravenous dose. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis TOFIDENCE may be used as an intravenous infusion alone or in combination with methotrexate. Do not change dose based solely on a single visit body weight measurement, as weight may fluctuate. Recommended Intravenous Dosage Regimen: The recommended dosage of TOFIDENCE for PJIA patients given once every 4 weeks as a 60-minute single intravenous drip infusion is: Recommended Intravenous PJIA Dosage Every 4 Weeks Patients less than 30 kg weight 10 mg per kg Patients at or above 30 kg weight 8 mg per kg When transitioning from intravenous therapy with TOFIDENCE to subcutaneous therapy with another tocilizumab product, administer the first subcutaneous dose instead of the next scheduled intravenous dose. Interruption of dosing may be needed for management of dose-related laboratory abnormalities including elevated liver enzymes, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) ]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis TOFIDENCE may be used as an intravenous infusion or in combination with methotrexate. Do not change a dose based solely on a single visit body weight measurement, as weight may fluctuate. Recommended Intravenous Dosage Regimen: The recommended dose of TOFIDENCE for SJIA patients given once every 2 weeks as a 60-minute single intravenous drip infusion is: Recommended Intravenous SJIA Dosage Every 2 Weeks Patients less than 30 kg weight 12 mg per kg Patients at or above 30 kg weight 8 mg per kg When transitioning from intravenous therapy with TOFIDENCE to subcutaneous therapy with another tocilizumab product, administer the first subcutaneous dose instead of the next scheduled intravenous dose. Interruption of dosing may be needed for management of dose-related laboratory abnormalities including elevated liver enzymes, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) ]. 2.6 Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Administer TOFIDENCE by intravenous infusion only. The recommended dosage of TOFIDENCE for treatment of adult patients with COVID-19 is 8 mg per kg administered as a single 60-minute intravenous infusion. If clinical signs or symptoms worsen or do not improve after the first dose, one additional infusion of TOFIDENCE may be administered at least 8 hours after the initial infusion. Doses exceeding 800 mg per infusion are not recommended in patients with COVID-19. 2.7 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Intravenous Infusion TOFIDENCE for intravenous infusion should be diluted by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique as follows: Use a sterile needle and syringe to prepare TOFIDENCE. Patients less than 30 kg: use a 50 mL infusion bag or bottle of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, and then follow steps 1 and 2 below. Patients at or above 30 kg weight: use a 100 mL infusion bag or bottle, and then follow steps 1 and 2 below. Step 1. Withdraw a volume of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, equal to the volume of the TOFIDENCE injection required for the patient's dose from the infusion bag or bottle [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.4 , 2.5) ]. For Intravenous Use: Volume of TOFIDENCE Injection per kg of Body Weight Dosage Indication Volume of TOFIDENCE injection per kg of body weight 4 mg/kg Adult RA 0.2 mL/kg 6 mg/kg Adult GCA 0.3 mL/kg 8 mg/kg Adult RA Adult COVID-19 SJIA and PJIA (greater than or equal to 30 kg of body weight) 0.4 mL/kg 10 mg/kg PJIA (less than 30 kg of body weight) 0.5 mL/kg 12 mg/kg SJIA (less than 30 kg of body weight) 0.6 mL/kg Step 2. Withdraw the amount of TOFIDENCE for intravenous infusion from the vial(s) and add slowly into the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP infusion bag or bottle. To mix the solution, gently invert the bag to avoid foaming. The fully diluted TOFIDENCE solutions for infusion using 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP may be stored refrigerated at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C) for up to 24 hours or room temperature at 68°F to 77°F (20°C to 25°C) for up to 12 hours and should be protected from light. TOFIDENCE solutions do not contain preservatives; therefore, unused product remaining in the vials should not be used. Allow the fully diluted TOFIDENCE solution to reach room temperature prior to infusion. The infusion should be administered over 60 minutes, and must be administered with an infusion set. Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus. TOFIDENCE should not be infused concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other drugs. No physical or biochemical compatibility studies have been conducted to evaluate the co-administration of TOFIDENCE with other drugs. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. If particulates and discolorations are noted, the product should not be used. Fully diluted TOFIDENCE solutions are compatible with infusion bags and/or infusion sets with the following materials: polypropylene, polyethylene, polyolefin, polyvinyl chloride, polyethersulfone, polyurethane, nylon and stainless steel. 2.8 Dosage Modifications due to Serious Infections or Laboratory Abnormalities Serious Infections Hold TOFIDENCE treatment if a patient develops a serious infection until the infection is controlled. Laboratory Abnormalities Rheumatoid Arthritis and Giant Cell Arteritis Liver Enzyme Abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) ] Lab Value Recommendation for RA Recommendation for GCA Greater than 1 to 3× ULN Dose modify concomitant DMARDs if appropriate. For persistent increases in this range: For patients receiving intravenous TOFIDENCE, reduce dose to 4 mg per kg or hold TOFIDENCE until ALT or AST have normalized. Dose modify immunomodulatory agents if appropriate For persistent increases in this range: For patients receiving intravenous TOFIDENCE, hold TOFIDENCE until ALT or AST have normalized. Greater than 3 to 5× ULN (confirmed by repeat testing) Hold TOFIDENCE dosing until less than 3× ULN and follow recommendations above for greater than 1 to 3× ULN. For persistent increases greater than 3× ULN, discontinue TOFIDENCE. Hold TOFIDENCE dosing until less than 3× ULN and follow recommendations above for greater than 1 to 3× ULN. For persistent increases greater than 3× ULN, discontinue TOFIDENCE. Greater than 5× ULN Discontinue TOFIDENCE. Discontinue TOFIDENCE. Low Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Lab Value (cells per mm 3 ) Recommendation for RA Recommendation for GCA ANC greater than 1000 Maintain dose. Maintain dose. ANC 500 to 1000 Hold TOFIDENCE dosing. When ANC greater than 1000 cells per mm 3: For patients receiving intravenous TOFIDENCE, resume TOFIDENCE at 4 mg per kg and increase to 8 mg per kg as clinically appropriate. Hold TOFIDENCE dosing. When ANC greater than 1000 cells per mm 3 : For patients receiving intravenous TOFIDENCE, resume TOFIDENCE at 6 mg per kg. ANC less than 500 Discontinue TOFIDENCE. Discontinue TOFIDENCE. Low Platelet Count [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Lab Value (cells per mm 3 ) Recommendation for RA Recommendation for GCA 50,000 to 100,000 Hold TOFIDENCE dosing. When platelet count is greater than 100,000 cells per mm 3 : For patients receiving intravenous TOFIDENCE, resume TOFIDENCE at 4 mg per kg and increase to 8 mg per kg as clinically appropriate. Hold TOFIDENCE dosing When platelet count is greater than 100,000 cells per mm 3 : For patients receiving intravenous TOFIDENCE, resume TOFIDENCE at 6 mg per kg. Less than 50,000 Discontinue TOFIDENCE. Discontinue TOFIDENCE. Polyarticular and Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Dose reduction of tocilizumab products has not been studied in the PJIA and SJIA populations. Dose interruptions of TOFIDENCE are recommended for liver enzyme abnormalities, low neutrophil counts, and low platelet counts in patients with PJIA and SJIA at levels similar to what is outlined above for patients with RA and GCA. If appropriate, dose modify or stop concomitant methotrexate and/or other medications and hold TOFIDENCE dosing until the clinical situation has been evaluated. In PJIA and SJIA the decision to discontinue TOFIDENCE for a laboratory abnormality should be based upon the medical assessment of the individual patient.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING TOFIDENCE (tocilizumab-bavi) injection is a preservative-free, sterile, clear to opalescent, colorless to light yellow solution. TOFIDENCE is supplied as 80 mg/4 mL (NDC 64406-024-01), 200 mg/10 mL (NDC 64406-022-01), and 400 mg/20 mL (NDC 64406-023-01) individually packaged 20 mg/mL single-dose vials for further dilution prior to intravenous infusion. Storage and Handling: Do not use beyond expiration date on the container or package. TOFIDENCE must be refrigerated at 36°F to 46°F (2°C to 8°C). Do not freeze. Protect the vials from light by storage in the original package until time of use.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 00529b23-850a-42b9-a152-125a95b5242c
