Name: Tofacitinib

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR/XELJANZ Oral Solution is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor indicated for: • Rheumatoid Arthritis : XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. o Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biologic DMARDs or potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. ( 1.1 ) • Psoriatic Arthritis : XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. o Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biologic DMARDs or potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. ( 1.2 ) • Ankylosing Spondylitis : XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. o Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biologic DMARDs or potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. ( 1.3 ) • Ulcerative Colitis : XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC), who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. o Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biological therapies for UC or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. ( 1.4 ) • Polyarticular Course Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis : XELJANZ/XELJANZ Oral Solution is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pcJIA) in patients 2 years of age and older who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. o Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ Oral Solution in combination with biologic DMARDs or potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Rheumatoid Arthritis XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. • Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. 1.2 Psoriatic Arthritis XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. • Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biologic DMARDs or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. 1.3 Ankylosing Spondylitis XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (AS) who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. • Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biologic DMARDs or potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. 1.4 Ulcerative Colitis XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC), who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. • Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biological therapies for UC or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended. 1.5 Polyarticular Course Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis XELJANZ/XELJANZ Oral Solution is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pcJIA) in patients 2 years of age and older who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. • Limitations of Use: Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ Oral Solution in combination with biologic DMARDs or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and cyclosporine is not recommended.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions • XELJANZ XR (tofacitinib extended-release tablets) is not interchangeable or substitutable with XELJANZ Oral Solution. ( 2.1 ) • Changes between XELJANZ and XELJANZ XR should be made by the healthcare provider. ( 2.1 ) • Do not initiate XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR/XELJANZ Oral Solution if absolute lymphocyte count <500 cells/mm 3 , an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) <1000 cells/mm 3 or hemoglobin <9 g/dL. ( 2.1 ) Recommended Dosage Rheumatoid Arthritis • XELJANZ 5 mg twice daily or XELJANZ XR 11 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) • Recommended dosage in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment or moderate hepatic impairment is XELJANZ 5 mg once daily. ( 2 , 8.7 , 8.8 ) Psoriatic Arthritis (in combination with nonbiologic DMARDs) • XELJANZ 5 mg twice daily or XELJANZ XR 11 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) • Recommended dosage in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment or moderate hepatic impairment is XELJANZ 5 mg once daily. ( 2 , 8.7 , 8.8 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis • XELJANZ 5 mg twice daily or XELJANZ XR 11 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) • Recommended dosage in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment or moderate hepatic impairment is XELJANZ 5 mg once daily. ( 2 , 8.7 , 8.8 ) Ulcerative Colitis • Induction: XELJANZ 10 mg twice daily or XELJANZ XR 22 mg once daily for 8 weeks; evaluate patients and transition to maintenance therapy depending on therapeutic response. If needed, continue XELJANZ 10 mg twice daily or XELJANZ XR 22 mg once daily for a maximum of 16 weeks. Discontinue XELJANZ 10 mg twice daily or XELJANZ XR 22 mg once daily after 16 weeks if adequate therapeutic response is not achieved. ( 2.3 ) • Maintenance: XELJANZ 5 mg twice daily or XELJANZ XR 11 mg once daily. For patients with loss of response during maintenance treatment, XELJANZ 10 mg twice daily or XELJANZ XR 22 mg once daily may be considered and limited to the shortest duration, with careful consideration of the benefits and risks for the individual patient. Use the lowest effective dose needed to maintain response. ( 2.3 ) • Dosage adjustment is needed in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment or moderate hepatic impairment: see full prescribing information. ( 2.3 ) Polyarticular Course Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis • XELJANZ/XELJANZ Oral Solution 5 mg twice daily or weight-based equivalent twice daily. ( 2.4 ) • Dosage adjustment is needed in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment or moderate hepatic impairment: see full prescribing information. ( 2.4 ) Dosage Adjustment • See the full prescribing information for dosage adjustments by indication for patients receiving CYP2C19 and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors; in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment or moderate hepatic impairment; and patients with lymphopenia, neutropenia, or anemia. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 8.7 , 8.8 ) • Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR/XELJANZ Oral Solution in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended in any patient population. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 8.8 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions • XELJANZ XR (tofacitinib extended-release tablets) is not interchangeable or substitutable with XELJANZ Oral Solution. • Changes between XELJANZ and XELJANZ XR should be made by the healthcare provider [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . • Do not initiate XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR/XELJANZ Oral Solution in patients with an absolute lymphocyte count less than 500 cells/mm 3 , an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than 1000 cells/mm 3 or who have hemoglobin levels less than 9 g/dL. • Dose interruption is recommended for management of lymphopenia, neutropenia, and anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . • Interrupt use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR/XELJANZ Oral Solution if a patient develops a serious infection until the infection is controlled [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • Take XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR/XELJANZ Oral Solution with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . • Swallow XELJANZ XR tablets whole and intact. Do not crush, split, or chew. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis, and Ankylosing Spondylitis Table 1 displays the recommended adult daily dosage of XELJANZ and XELJANZ XR and dosage adjustments for patients receiving CYP2C19 and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors, in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (including but not limited to those with severe insufficiency who are undergoing hemodialysis) or moderate hepatic impairment, with lymphopenia, neutropenia, or anemia. Table 1: Recommended Dosage of XELJANZ and XELJANZ XR in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is used in combination with nonbiologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) in psoriatic arthritis. The efficacy of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR as a monotherapy has not been studied in psoriatic arthritis. , and Ankylosing Spondylitis XELJANZ tablet XELJANZ XR extended-release tablet Adult patients 5 mg twice daily 11 mg once daily Patients receiving: • Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole), or • a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor(s) with a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor(s) (e.g., fluconazole) [see Drug Interactions (7) ] 5 mg once daily Reduce to XELJANZ 5 mg once daily Patients with: • moderate or severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] • moderate hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) ] Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended. 5 mg once daily Reduce to XELJANZ 5 mg once daily For patients undergoing hemodialysis, dose should be administered after the dialysis session on dialysis days. If a dose was taken before the dialysis procedure, supplemental doses are not recommended in patients after dialysis. Patients with lymphocyte count less than 500 cells/mm 3 , confirmed by repeat testing Discontinue dosing. Patients with ANC 500 to 1000 cells/mm 3 Interrupt dosing. When ANC is greater than 1000, resume 5 mg twice daily. Interrupt dosing. When ANC is greater than 1000, resume 11 mg once daily. Patients with ANC less than 500 cells/mm 3 Discontinue dosing. Patients with hemoglobin less than 8 g/dL or a decrease of more than 2 g/dL Interrupt dosing until hemoglobin values have normalized. Switching from XELJANZ Tablets to XELJANZ XR Extended-Release Tablets Patients treated with XELJANZ tablets 5 mg twice daily may be switched to XELJANZ XR extended-release tablets 11 mg once daily the day following the last dose of XELJANZ 5 mg. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Ulcerative Colitis Table 2 displays the recommended adult daily dosage of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR and dosage adjustments for patients receiving CYP2C19 and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors, with moderate or severe renal impairment (including but not limited to those with severe insufficiency who are undergoing hemodialysis) or moderate hepatic impairment, with lymphopenia, neutropenia or anemia. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in Patients with UC XELJANZ tablet XELJANZ XR extended-release tablet Adult patients Induction: 10 mg twice daily for at least 8 weeks [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] ; evaluate patients and transition to maintenance therapy depending on therapeutic response. If needed continue 10 mg twice daily for a maximum of 16 weeks. Discontinue 10 mg twice daily after 16 weeks if adequate therapeutic response is not achieved. Maintenance: 5 mg twice daily. For patients with loss of response during maintenance treatment, a dosage of 10 mg twice daily may be considered and limited to the shortest duration, with careful consideration of the benefits and risks for the individual patient. Use the lowest effective dose needed to maintain response . Induction: 22 mg once daily for at least 8 weeks; evaluate patients and transition to maintenance therapy depending on therapeutic response. If needed continue 22 mg once daily for a maximum of 16 weeks. Discontinue 22 mg once daily after 16 weeks if adequate therapeutic response is not achieved. Maintenance: 11 mg once daily. For patients with loss of response during maintenance treatment, a dosage of 22 mg once daily may be considered and limited to the shortest duration, with careful consideration of the benefits and risks for the individual patient. Use the lowest effective dose needed to maintain response. Patients receiving: • Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole), or • a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor(s) with a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor(s) (e.g., fluconazole) [see Drug Interactions (7) ] If taking 10 mg twice daily, reduce to 5 mg twice daily. If taking 5 mg twice daily, reduce to 5 mg once daily. If taking 22 mg once daily, reduce to 11 mg once daily. If taking 11 mg once daily, reduce to XELJANZ 5 mg once daily Patients with: • moderate or severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] • moderate hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) ] Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended. If taking 10 mg twice daily, reduce to 5 mg twice daily. If taking 5 mg twice daily, reduce to 5 mg once daily. If taking 22 mg once daily, reduce to 11 mg once daily. If taking 11 mg once daily, reduce to XELJANZ 5 mg once daily. For patients undergoing hemodialysis, dose should be administered after the dialysis session on dialysis days. If a dose was taken before the dialysis procedure, supplemental doses are not recommended in patients after dialysis. Patients with lymphocyte count less than 500 cells/mm 3 , confirmed by repeat testing Discontinue dosing. Patients with ANC 500 to 1000 cells/mm 3 If taking 10 mg twice daily, reduce to 5 mg twice daily. When ANC is greater than 1000, increase to 10 mg twice daily based on clinical response. If taking 5 mg twice daily, interrupt dosing. When ANC is greater than 1000, resume 5 mg twice daily. If taking 22 mg once daily, reduce to 11 mg once daily. When ANC is greater than 1000, increase to 22 mg once daily based on clinical response. If taking 11 mg once daily, interrupt dosing. When ANC is greater than 1000, resume 11 mg once daily. Patients with ANC less than 500 cells/mm 3 Discontinue dosing. Patients with hemoglobin less than 8 g/dL or a decrease of more than 2 g/dL Interrupt dosing until hemoglobin values have normalized. Switching from XELJANZ Tablets to XELJANZ XR Extended-Release Tablets Patients treated with XELJANZ 5 mg tablets twice daily may be switched to XELJANZ XR extended-release tablets 11 mg once daily the day following the last dose of XELJANZ tablets 5 mg. Patients treated with XELJANZ 10 mg tablets twice daily may be switched to XELJANZ XR extended-release tablets 22 mg once daily the day following the last dose of XELJANZ 10 mg. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Polyarticular Course Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Table 3 displays the recommended body weight-based dosages for XELJANZ tablets/XELJANZ Oral Solution and dosage adjustments for patients receiving CYP2C19 and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7) ] , in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, including but not limited to those undergoing hemodialysis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] , with moderate hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) ] , with lymphopenia, neutropenia, or anemia. Table 3: Recommended Dosage of XELJANZ/XELJANZ Oral Solution in Patients with pcJIA XELJANZ tablets/XELJANZ Oral Solution pcJIA patients • 10 kg ≤ body weight <20 kg: 3.2 mg (3.2 mL oral solution) twice daily • 20 kg ≤ body weight <40 kg: 4 mg (4 mL oral solution) twice daily • Body weight ≥40 kg: 5 mg (one 5 mg tablet or 5 mL oral solution Patients treated with 5 mL XELJANZ Oral Solution may be switched to a XELJANZ 5 mg tablet. ) twice daily Patients receiving: • strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole), or • a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor(s) with a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor(s) (e.g., fluconazole) [see Drug Interactions (7) ] If taking 3.2 mg twice daily, reduce to 3.2 mg once daily. If taking 4 mg twice daily, reduce to 4 mg once daily. If taking 5 mg twice daily, reduce to 5 mg once daily. Patients with: • moderate or severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] • moderate hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) ] XELJANZ/XELJANZ Oral Solution is not recommended for patients with severe hepatic impairment. If taking 3.2 mg twice daily, reduce to 3.2 mg once daily. If taking 4 mg twice daily, reduce to 4 mg once daily. If taking 5 mg twice daily, reduce to 5 mg once daily. For patients undergoing hemodialysis, dose should be administered after the dialysis session on dialysis days. If a dose was taken before the dialysis procedure, supplemental doses are not recommended in patients after dialysis. Patients with lymphocyte count less than 500 cells/mm 3 , confirmed by repeat testing Discontinue dosing. Patients with ANC 500 to 1000 cells/mm 3 Interrupt dosing until ANC is greater than 1000 cells/mm 3 . Patients with ANC less than 500 cells/mm 3 Discontinue dosing. Patients with hemoglobin less than 8 g/dL or a decrease of more than 2 g/dL Interrupt dosing until hemoglobin values have normalized. Administer XELJANZ Oral Solution using the included press-in bottle adapter and oral dosing syringe [see Instructions for Use ] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How supplied information for XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is shown in Table 22. Table 22: How Supplied Information for XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR Bottle Size (number of tablets) NDC Number XELJANZ 5 mg tofacitinib tablets White, round, immediate-release film-coated tablets, debossed with "Pfizer" on one side, and "JKI 5" on the other side 60 NDC 0069-1001-01 XELJANZ 10 mg tofacitinib tablets Blue, round, immediate-release film-coated tablets, debossed with "Pfizer" on one side, and "JKI 10" on the other side 60 NDC 0069-1002-01 XELJANZ XR 11 mg tofacitinib tablets Pink, oval, extended-release film-coated tablets with a drilled hole at one end of the tablet band and "JKI 11" printed on one side of the tablet 30 NDC 0069-0501-30 XELJANZ XR 22 mg tofacitinib tablets Beige, oval, extended-release film-coated tablets with a drilled hole at one end of the tablet band and "JKI 22" printed on one side of the tablet 30 NDC 0069-0502-30 How supplied information for XELJANZ Oral Solution is shown in Table 23. Table 23: How Supplied Information for XELJANZ Oral Solution Bottle Fill (volume mL) NDC Number XELJANZ Oral Solution 1 mg/mL tofacitinib oral solution Clear, colorless solution 240 mL NDC 0069-1029-02 XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR Store XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Do not repackage. XELJANZ Oral Solution XELJANZ 1 mg/ mL oral solution is a clear, colorless solution that contains 1 mg of tofacitinib. It is packaged in HDPE bottles as follows: Each bottle is packaged with one press-in bottle adapter and one 5 mL oral dosing syringe with 3.2 mL, 4 mL, and 5 mL gradations. The press-in bottle adapter and oral dosing syringe are not made with natural rubber latex. Store at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F), excursions permitted between 15°C and 30°C (between 59°F and 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Store in the original bottle and carton to protect from light. Use contents of bottle within 60 days of opening. Discard remaining oral solution after 60 days.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 68e3d6b2-7838-4d2d-a417-09d919b43e13
