Name: Tranylcypromine

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tranylcypromine tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adult patients who have not responded adequately to other antidepressants. Tranylcypromine tablets are not indicated for the initial treatment of MDD due to the potential for serious adverse reactions and drug interactions, and the need for dietary restrictions [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5) , and Drug Interactions (7) ] . • Tranylcypromine tablets are a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adult patients who have not responded adequately to other antidepressants ( 1 ) • Tranylcypromine tablets are not indicated for the initial treatment of MDD due to the potential for serious adverse reactions and drug interactions, and the need for dietary restrictions ( 1 , 4 , 5 , 7 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended daily dosage is 30 mg in divided doses ( 2.1 ) • If no adequate response, increase dosage in increments of 10 mg per day every 1 to 3 weeks to a maximum dosage of 30 mg twice daily (60 mg per day). Consider more gradual dosage increases in patients at risk for hypotension ( 2.1 ) • Consider discontinuing tranylcypromine tablets therapy gradually because of the risk for withdrawal effects ( 2.3 , 5.8 , 9.3 ) • Switching from or to other MAOIs or other antidepressants: See full prescribing information for instructions ( 2.2 , 7.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage Tranylcypromine tablets are for oral use. The recommended dosage is 30 mg per day (in divided doses). If patients do not have an adequate response, increase the dosage in increments of 10 mg per day every 1 to 3 weeks to a maximum 30 mg twice daily (60 mg per day). Dosage increases should be made more gradually in patients at risk for hypotension (e.g., geriatric patients) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2.2 Switching to or from Other Antidepressants Switching from Contraindicated Antidepressants to Tranylcypromine Tablets After stopping treatment with contraindicated antidepressants, a time period of 4 to 5 half-lives of the other antidepressant or any active metabolite should elapse before starting treatment with tranylcypromine tablets. After stopping treatment with an MAO inhibitor antidepressant, a time period of at least one week or 4 to 5 half-lives of the other MAO inhibitor (whichever is longer) should elapse before starting treatment with tranylcypromine tablets to reduce the risk of additive effects [see Contraindications (4.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Switching from tranylcypromine tablets to Other MAOIs or Contraindicated Antidepressants After stopping tranylcypromine tablets treatment, at least one week should elapse before starting another MAOI (intended to treat MDD) or other contraindicated antidepressants. Refer to the prescribing information of the subsequently used drug for product-specific advice on a medication-free interval [see Contraindications (4.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.3 Discontinuing Treatment Withdrawal effects, including delirium, have been reported with abrupt discontinuation of tranylcypromine tablets therapy. Higher daily doses and longer duration of use appear to be associated with a higher risk of withdrawal effects. Consider discontinuing tranylcypromine tablets therapy by slow, gradual dosage reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder and Elevated Blood Pressure Prior to Starting Tranylcypromine Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with tranylcypromine tablets: • Screen patients for a history of mania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Measure blood pressure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.5) ] .

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Tranylcypromine Tablets, USP are available as round, red, film-coated tablets debossed with "10" on one side and plain on the other side, containing tranylcypromine sulfate equivalent to 10 mg of tranylcypromine. They are supplied in bottles of 100 tablets with a desiccant. • 10 mg, bottles of 100 tablets: NDC 43547-655-10 Store between 15° and 30°C (59° and 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 3c14a558-2df4-4d93-97dd-640dec6ee785
