Name: Trazodone

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trazodone is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) ( 1 ). Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose: 150 mg in divided doses daily. May be increased by 50 mg per day every three to four days. Maximum dose: 400 mg per day in divided doses ( 2 ). Trazodone hydrochloride tablets should be taken shortly after a meal or light snack ( 2 ). Tablets should be swallowed whole or broken in half along the score line, and should not be chewed or crushed ( 2 ). When discontinued, gradual dose reduction is recommended ( 2 ). 2.1 Dose Selection An initial dose of 150 mg/day in divided doses is suggested. The dosage should be initiated at a low-dose and increased gradually, noting the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance. Occurrence of drowsiness may require the administration of a major portion of the daily dose at bedtime or a reduction of dosage. The dose may be increased by 50 mg/day every 3 to 4 days. The maximum dose for outpatients usually should not exceed 400 mg/day in divided doses. Inpatients (i.e., more severely depressed patients) may be given up to but not in excess of 600 mg/day in divided doses. Once an adequate response has been achieved, dosage may be gradually reduced, with subsequent adjustment depending on therapeutic response. 2.2 Improtant Administration Instructions Trazodone hydrochloride tablets can be swallowed whole or administered as a half tablet by breaking the tablet along the score line. Trazodone hydrochloride tablets should be taken shortly after a meal or light snack. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Trazodone Prior to initiating treatment with trazodone hydrochloride tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. 2.4 Switchning to or from Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of trazodone hydrochloride tablets. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping trazodone hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2.5 Dosage Recommendations for Concomitant Use with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Consider reducing trazodone dose based on tolerability when trazodone is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Consider increasing trazodone dose based on therapeutic response when trazodone is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Trazodone Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of trazodone [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping trazodone abruptly whenever possible.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Product: 50090-6603 NDC: 50090-6603-0 90 TABLET in a BOTTLE

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 007f38e0-653b-43e4-a1c1-b59997b2762a
