Name: Treprostinil

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Treprostinil injection is a prostacyclin mimetic indicated for: • Treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH; WHO Group 1) to diminish symptoms associated with exercise. Studies establishing effectiveness included patients with NYHA Functional Class II-IV symptoms and etiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH (58%), PAH associated with congenital systemic-to-pulmonary shunts (23%), or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases (19%). ( 1.1 ) • Patients who require transition from epoprostenol, to reduce the rate of clinical deterioration. The risks and benefits of each drug should be carefully considered prior to transition. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Treprostinil injection is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH; WHO Group 1) to diminish symptoms associated with exercise. Studies establishing effectiveness included patients with NYHA Functional Class II-IV symptoms and etiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH (58%), PAH associated with congenital systemic-to-pulmonary shunts (23%), or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases (19%) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension in Patients Requiring Transition from Epoprostenol In patients with PAH requiring transition from epoprostenol, treprostinil injection is indicated to diminish the rate of clinical deterioration. Consider the risks and benefits of each drug prior to transition.

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION PAH WHO Group 1 in patients with NYHA Class II-IV symptoms: • Initial dose for patients new to prostacyclin infusion therapy: 1.25 ng/kg/min; increase based on clinical response (increments of 1.25 ng/kg/min per week for the first 4 weeks of treatment, later 2.5 ng/kg/min per week). Avoid abrupt cessation. ( 2.2 , 2.4 ) • Mild to moderate hepatic insufficiency: Decrease initial dose to 0.625 ng/kg/min. Severe hepatic insufficiency: No studies performed. ( 2.5 ) Transition from Epoprostenol: Increase the treprostinil injection dose gradually as the epoprostenol dose is decreased, based on constant observation of response. ( 2.7 ) Administration: Continuous subcutaneous infusion is the preferred mode. Use intravenous (IV) infusion if subcutaneous infusion is not tolerated. ( 2.1 , 2.6 ) 2.1 General Treprostinil injection can be administered with or without further dilution with Sterile Diluent for treprostinil or similar approved high-pH glycine diluent (e.g., Sterile Diluent for Flolan or Sterile Diluent for Epoprostenol), Sterile Water for Injection, or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection prior to administration. See Table 1 below for storage and administration time limits for the different diluents. Diluted treprostinil injection has been shown to be stable at ambient temperature when stored for up to 14 days using high-pH glycine diluent at concentrations as low as 0.004 mg/mL (4,000 ng/mL). Table 1: Selection of Diluent Diluent Storage Limits Administration Limits None See Section 16 16 weeks at 40°C Sterile Diluents for Treprostinil Injection, Flolan, or Epoprostenol 14 days at room temperature 48 hours at 40°C Sterile Water for Injection 0.9% Sodium Chloride for Injection 4 hours at room temperature or 24 hours refrigerated 48 hours at 40°C 2.2 Initial Dose for Patients New to Prostacyclin Infusion Therapy Treprostinil injection is indicated for subcutaneous (SC) or intravenous (IV) use only as a continuous infusion. Treprostinil injection is preferably infused subcutaneously, but can be administered by a central intravenous line if the subcutaneous route is not tolerated because of severe site pain or reaction. The infusion rate is initiated at 1.25 ng/kg/min. If this initial dose cannot be tolerated because of systemic effects, reduce the infusion rate to 0.625 ng/kg/min. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments The goal of chronic dosage adjustments is to establish a dose at which PAH symptoms are improved, while minimizing excessive pharmacologic effects of treprostinil injection (headache, nausea, emesis, restlessness, anxiety, and infusion site pain or reaction). The infusion rate should be increased in increments of 1.25 ng/kg/min per week for the first four weeks of treatment and then 2.5 ng/kg/min per week for the remaining duration of infusion, depending on clinical response. Dosage adjustments may be undertaken more often if tolerated. Avoid abrupt cessation of infusion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Restarting a treprostinil injection infusion within a few hours after an interruption can be done using the same dose rate. Interruptions for longer periods may require the dose of treprostinil injection to be re-titrated. 2.5 Patients with Hepatic Insufficiency In patients with mild or moderate hepatic insufficiency, decrease the initial dose of treprostinil injection to 0.625 ng/kg/min ideal body weight. Treprostinil injection has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.6 Administration Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. If either particulate matter or discoloration is noted, do not use. Preparation Treprostinil injection is administered by subcutaneous or intravenous infusion at a calculated rate based on a patient’s dose (ng/kg/min), weight (kg), and the treprostinil concentration (mg/mL). For administration of Undiluted Treprostinil Injection the rate is calculated using the following formula: Undiluted Infusion Rate (mL/hour) = Dose (ng/kg/min) × Weight (kg) × 0.00006* Treprostinil Injection Vial Strength (mg/mL) For administration of Diluted Treprostinil Injection, the concentration is calculated using the following formula: Step 1 Diluted Treprostinil Concentration (mg/mL) = Dose (ng/kg/min) × Weight (kg) × 0.00006 Infusion Rate (mL/hour) The volume of treprostinil injection needed to make the required diluted treprostinil concentration for the given reservoir size can then be calculated using the following formula: Step 2 Volume of Treprostinil Injection (mL) = Diluted Treprostinil Injection Concentration (mg/mL) × Total Volume of Diluted Treprostinil Injection Solution in Reservoir (mL) Treprostinil Injection Vial Strength (mg/mL) The calculated volume of treprostinil injection is then added to the reservoir along with the sufficient volume of diluent to achieve the desired total volume in the reservoir. Subcutaneous Infusion Treprostinil injection is administered subcutaneously by continuous infusion, via a subcutaneous catheter, using an infusion pump designed for subcutaneous drug delivery. The infusion pump should: (1) be adjustable to approximately 0.002 mL/hour, (2) have occlusion/no delivery, low battery, programming error and motor malfunction alarms, (3) have delivery accuracy of ±6% or better, (4) be positive pressure-driven, and (5) have a reservoir made of polyvinyl chloride, polypropylene or glass. Alternatively, use an infusion pump cleared for use with treprostinil injection. To avoid potential interruptions in drug delivery, the patient must have immediate access to a backup infusion pump and subcutaneous infusion sets. Intravenous Infusion External Intravenous Infusion Pump Treprostinil injection is administered intravenously by continuous infusion via a surgically placed indwelling central venous catheter using an external infusion pump designed for intravenous drug delivery. If clinically necessary, a temporary peripheral intravenous cannula, preferably placed in a large vein, may be used for short term administration of treprostinil injection. Use of a peripheral intravenous infusion for more than a few hours increases the risk of thrombophlebitis. The infusion pump used to administer treprostinil injection should: (1) have occlusion/no delivery, low battery, programming error and motor malfunction alarms, (2) have delivery accuracy of ±6% or better, (3) be positive pressure driven, and (4) have a reservoir made of polyvinyl chloride, polypropylene or glass. Alternatively, use an infusion pump cleared for use with treprostinil injection. To avoid potential interruptions in drug delivery, the patient must have immediate access to a backup infusion pump and infusion sets. Infusion sets with an in-line 0.22- or 0.2-micron pore size filter should be used. 2.7 Patients Requiring Transition from Epoprostenol Transition from epoprostenol to treprostinil injection is accomplished by initiating the infusion of treprostinil injection and increasing it, while simultaneously reducing the dose of intravenous epoprostenol. The transition to treprostinil injection should take place in a hospital with constant observation of response (e.g., walk distance and signs and symptoms of disease progression). Initiate treprostinil injection at a recommended dose of 10% of the current epoprostenol dose, and then escalate as the epoprostenol dose is decreased (see Table 2 for recommended dose titrations). Patients are individually titrated to a dose that allows transition from epoprostenol therapy to treprostinil injection while balancing prostacyclin-limiting adverse events. Treat increases in the patient’s symptoms of PAH first with increases in the dose of treprostinil injection. Treat side effects normally associated with prostacyclin and prostacyclin analogs first by decreasing the dose of epoprostenol. Table 2: Recommended Transition Dose Changes Step Epoprostenol Dose Treprostinil Injection Dose 1 Unchanged 10% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 2 80% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 30% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 3 60% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 50% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 4 40% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 70% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 5 20% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 90% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 6 5% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 110% Starting Epoprostenol Dose 7 0 110% Starting Epoprostenol Dose + additional 5-10% increments as needed

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING Treprostinil injection is supplied in 20-mL multi-dose vials as sterile solutions in water for injection, individually packaged in cartons. Unopened vials of treprostinil injection are stable until the date indicated when stored at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. A single vial of treprostinil injection should be used for no more than 30 days after the initial introduction into the vial. Treprostinil injection is supplied as: Treprostinil Injection Concentration Carton of 1 NDC 20 mg/20 mL 1 mg/mL NDC 0781-3420-80 50 mg/20 mL 2.5 mg/mL NDC 0781-3425-80 100 mg/20 mL 5 mg/mL NDC 0781-3427-80 200 mg/20 mL 10 mg/mL NDC 0781-3430-80 Sterile Diluent for treprostinil injection is supplied separately as: NDC 0781-6021-94 Carton of one 50 mL Single-dose vial Discard unused portion.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 473297ca-a872-4052-a053-87dc8f0d3c13
