Name: Triamterene

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE: This fixed combination drug is not indicated for the initial therapy of edema or hypertension except in individuals in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension or edema in patients who develop hypokalemia on hydrochlorothiazide alone. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is also indicated for those patients who require a thiazide diuretic and in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked (e.g., patients on concomitant digitalis preparations, or with a history of cardiac arrhythmias, etc.). Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs, such as beta-blockers. Since triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide may enhance the actions of these drugs, dosage adjustments may be necessary. Usage in Pregnancy: The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard. Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy, and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia. Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy. Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as they are in the absence of pregnancy. Dependent edema in pregnancy, resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus, is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary. There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother (in the absence of cardiovascular disease), but which is associated with edema, including generalized edema, in the majority of pregnant women. If this edema produces discomfort, increased recumbency will often provide relief. In rare instances, this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest. In these cases, a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg is one or two tablets daily, given as a single dose, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/ 50 mg is one tablet daily, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). There is no experience with the use of more than one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 75mg/50mg daily or more than two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily. Clinical experience with the administration of two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily in divided doses (rather than as a single dose) suggests an increased risk of electrolyte imbalance and renal dysfunction. Patients receiving 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/50mg directly. Patients receiving 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg directly. In patients requiring hydrochlorothiazide therapy and in whom hypokalemia cannot be risked therapy may be initiated with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg. If an optimal blood pressure response is not obtained with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg, the dose should be increased to two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily as a single dose, or one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 75mg/25mg daily. If blood pressure still is not controlled, another antihypertensive agent may be added (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Clinical studies have shown that patients taking less bioavailable formulations of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide in daily doses of 25 mg to 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide and 50 mg to 100 mg triamterene may be safely changed to one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily. All patients changed from less bioavailable formulations to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/50mg should be monitored clinically and for serum potassium after the transfer.

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP 37.5mg/25 mg are yellow colored, oval shaped tablets, debossed with “Λ 134” one side and scored on the other side. Each tablet contains 37.5 mg of triamterene, USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide, USP. They are supplied as follows: NDC 82868-006-30 bottles of 30 NDC 82868-006-90 bottles of 90 Store at 20º to 25ºC (68º to 77ºF) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature.] Protect from light. Dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the USP using a child- resistant closure. Manufactured by: Rubicon Research Private Limited Ambernath, Dist: Thane, 421506 India. Distributed by: Advagen Pharma Ltd., 666 Plainsboro Road, Suite 605 Plainsboro, NJ 08536, USA. Rev. 10/2021 WARNINGS: Hyperkalemia: Abnormal elevation of serum potassium levels (greater than or equal to 5.5 mEq/liter) can occur with all potassium-conserving diuretic combinations, including triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. Hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal impairment, diabetes (even without evidence of renal impairment), or elderly or severely ill patients. Since uncorrected hyperkalemia may be fatal, serum potassium levels must be monitored at frequent intervals especially in patients first receiving triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide, when dosages are changed or with any illness that may influence renal function. If hyperkalemia is suspected, (warning signs include paresthesias, muscular weakness, fatigue, flaccid paralysis of the extremities, bradycardia and shock) an electrocardiogram (ECG) should be obtained. However, it is important to monitor serum potassium levels because mild hyperkalemia may not be associated with ECG changes. If hyperkalemia is present, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued immediately and a thiazide alone should be substituted. If the serum potassium exceeds 6.5 mEq/liter, more vigorous therapy is required. The clinical situation dictates the procedures to be employed. These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution, sodium bicarbonate solution and/or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid-acting insulin preparation. Cationic exchange resins such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be orally or rectally administered. Persistent hyperkalemia may require dialysis. The development of hyperkalemia associated with potassium-sparing diuretics is accentuated in the presence of renal impairment (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Patients with mild renal functional impairment should not receive this drug without frequent and continuing monitoring of serum electrolytes. Cumulative drug effects may be observed in patients with impaired renal function. The renal clearances of hydrochlorothiazide and the pharmacologically active metabolite of triamterene, the sulfate ester of hydroxytriamterene, have been shown to be reduced and the plasma levels increased following triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide administration to elderly patients and patients with impaired renal function. Hyperkalemia has been reported in diabetic patients with the use of potassium-conserving agents even in the absence of apparent renal impairment. Accordingly, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be avoided in diabetic patients. If it is employed, serum electrolytes must be frequently monitored. Because of the potassium-sparing properties of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be used cautiously, if at all, with these agents (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Metabolic or Respiratory Acidosis: Potassium-conserving therapy should also be avoided in severely ill patients in whom respiratory or metabolic acidosis may occur. Acidosis may be associated with rapid elevations in serum potassium levels. If triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is employed, frequent evaluations of acid/base balance and serum electrolytes are necessary. Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma: Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 03b11335-2e88-2f7b-e063-6394a90afe2a
