Name: Vedolizumab

introduction: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ENTYVIO is indicated in adults for the treatment of: moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC). moderately to severely active Crohn's disease (CD). ENTYVIO is an integrin receptor antagonist indicated in adults for the treatment of: moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC). ( 1 ) moderately to severely active Crohn's disease (CD). ( 1 )

dosage_text: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Information Before initiating ENTYVIO, update immunizations according to current immunization guidelines. ( 2.1 , 5.5 ) Intravenous Administration : ENTYVIO should be administered intravenously by a healthcare provider. ( 2.1 ) Subcutaneous Injection : ENTYVIO prefilled syringe and ENTYVIO PEN are intended for subcutaneous use. A patient may self-inject or caregiver may inject after proper training on correct subcutaneous injection technique. ( 2.1 ) Recommended Dosage ( 2.2 ) Week 0 : 300 mg infused intravenously over approximately 30 minutes. Week 2 : 300 mg infused intravenously over approximately 30 minutes. Week 6 : Patients may remain on ENTYVIO intravenous therapy or switch to subcutaneous injection after receiving two ENTYVIO intravenous doses administered at Week 0 and Week 2. Intravenous Infusion : 300 mg infused over approximately 30 minutes and then every eight weeks thereafter. Subcutaneous Injection : 108 mg subcutaneously once every two weeks. Discontinue ENTYVIO in patients who do not show evidence of therapeutic benefit by Week 14. Patients currently receiving and responding to ENTYVIO intravenous therapy after Week 6 may also be switched to subcutaneous injection. Administer the first subcutaneous dose in place of the next scheduled intravenous infusion and every two weeks thereafter. Preparation and Administration Instructions: See full prescribing information for complete information on reconstitution, dilution, administration, and storage. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Administration Information Before initiating ENTYVIO, update immunizations according to current immunization guidelines [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Intravenous Administration ENTYVIO should be administered by a healthcare provider prepared to manage hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, if they occur [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Appropriate monitoring and medical support measures should be available for immediate use. Observe patients during infusion and until the infusion is complete. Reconstitute and dilute ENTYVIO lyophilized powder prior to administration as a 30-minute intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Subcutaneous Injection ENTYVIO prefilled syringe and ENTYVIO PEN are intended for subcutaneous use under the guidance and supervision of a healthcare professional. Patients may self-inject or caregivers may inject subcutaneous ENTYVIO using either the ENTYVIO prefilled syringe or ENTYVIO PEN after training in subcutaneous injection technique. Provide proper training to patients and/or caregivers on the subcutaneous injection technique of ENTYVIO. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adults with Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn’s Disease Week 0: Administer ENTYVIO 300 mg by intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Week 2: Administer ENTYVIO 300 mg by intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes. Week 6: Patients may remain on ENTYVIO intravenous therapy or switch to subcutaneous injection after receiving two ENTYVIO intravenous doses administered at Week 0 and Week 2. Intravenous Infusion : Administer ENTYVIO 300 mg by intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes and then every eight weeks thereafter. Subcutaneous Injection : Administer ENTYVIO 108 mg subcutaneously once every 2 weeks. Discontinue therapy in patients who show no evidence of therapeutic benefit by Week 14. Patients currently receiving and responding to ENTYVIO intravenous therapy after Week 6 may also be switched to subcutaneous injection. Administer the first subcutaneous dose in place of the next scheduled intravenous infusion and every two weeks thereafter. 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Intravenous Infusion Reconstitution Instructions Remove the flip-off cap from the single-dose vial and wipe with alcohol swab. Reconstitute ENTYVIO vial containing lyophilized powder with 4.8 mL of Sterile Water for injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, at room temperature (20°C to 25°C [68ºF to 77ºF]), using a syringe with a 21- to 25-gauge needle. Insert the syringe needle into the vial through the center of the stopper and direct the stream of Sterile Water for Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, to the glass wall of the vial to avoid excessive foaming. Gently swirl the vial for at least 15 seconds to dissolve the lyophilized powder. Do not vigorously shake or invert. Allow the solution to sit for up to 20 minutes at room temperature to allow for reconstitution and for any foam to settle; the vial can be swirled and inspected for dissolution during this time. If not fully dissolved after 20 minutes, allow another 10 minutes for dissolution. Do not use the vial if the drug product is not dissolved within 30 minutes. Visually inspect the reconstituted ENTYVIO solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to dilution. Solution should be clear or opalescent, colorless to light brownish yellow and free of visible particulates. Do not administer reconstituted solution showing uncharacteristic color or containing particulates. Once dissolved, gently invert vial three times. Immediately, withdraw 5 mL (300 mg) of reconstituted ENTYVIO solution using a syringe with a 21- to 25-gauge needle. Discard any remaining portion of the reconstituted solution in the vial. Dilution Instructions Add the 5 mL (300 mg) of reconstituted ENTYVIO solution to 250 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, and gently mix the infusion bag. Do not add other medicinal products to the prepared infusion solution or intravenous infusion set. Once reconstituted and diluted, use the infusion solution as soon as possible. Discard any unused portion of the infusion solution . Administration Instructions After the infusion is complete, flush with 30 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection. Storage and Stability Specific storage conditions and timing for the reconstituted solution in vial and diluted solution in the infusion bag are outlined in Table 1 . Do not freeze the reconstituted solution in the vial or the diluted solution in the infusion bag. Table 1. Storage Instructions for Reconstituted Solution in Vial and Diluted Solution in Infusion Bag Solution Storage Conditions Refrigeration (2°C to 8°C [36°F to 46°F]) Room Temperature (20°C to 25°C [68°F to 77°F]) Reconstituted Solution (in Sterile Water for Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, inside vial) 8 hours Use immediately after reconstitution Diluted Solution (in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection) 24 hours This time assumes the reconstituted solution is immediately diluted in the 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, and held in the infusion bag only. Any time that the reconstituted solution was held in vial should be subtracted from the time the solution may be held in the infusion bag. , This period may include up to 12 hours at room temperature (20°C to 25°C [68°F to 77°F]). 12 hours Diluted Solution (in Lactated Ringer's Injection) 6 hours Use immediately after dilution The combined storage time of reconstituted ENTYVIO solution in the vial and the diluted solution in the infusion bag with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, is a total of 12 hours at room temperature (20°C to 25°C [68°F to 77°F]) or 24 hours refrigerated (2°C to 8°C [36°F to 46°F]). This combined storage time may include up to eight hours of the reconstituted solution in the vial at 2°C to 8°C. The combined storage time of reconstituted ENTYVIO solution in the vial and the diluted solution in the infusion bag with Lactated Ringer's Injection, is a total of six hours refrigerated (2°C to 8°C [36°F to 46°F]). 2.4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Subcutaneous Injection Inspect the solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. ENTYVIO in prefilled syringe or ENTYVIO PEN should be a clear to moderately opalescent, colorless to slightly yellow solution. Do not use ENTYVIO prefilled syringes or ENTYVIO PENs with visible particulate matter or discoloration. Administer each subcutaneous injection at a different anatomic location (such as thighs, any quadrant of abdomen, or upper arms) than the previous injection. Administration of ENTYVIO in the back of upper arm may only be performed by a healthcare professional or caregiver. Do not inject into moles, scars, bruises, or areas where the skin is tender, erythematous, or indurated. Missed Subcutaneous Dose If treatment with subcutaneous ENTYVIO is interrupted or if a scheduled dose(s) of subcutaneous ENTYVIO is missed, inject the next subcutaneous dose as soon as possible and then every 2 weeks thereafter. In the event of incomplete dose administration (i.e., patient attempts administration of dose with ENTYVIO PEN, however it is uncertain if a full dose was administered), instruct the patient to call their pharmacy or healthcare provider.

how_to_use: 16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Intravenous Infusion ENTYVIO ® (vedolizumab) for injection for intravenous infusion is supplied in sterile single-dose glass vials, containing 300 mg of vedolizumab as a white to off-white lyophilized cake. ENTYVIO: 300 mg single-dose vial in individual carton: NDC 64764-300-20 Subcutaneous Injection ENTYVIO (vedolizumab) injection for subcutaneous use is available in a prefilled syringe or a prefilled pen as a clear to moderately opalescent and colorless to slightly yellow solution. The single-dose, disposable ENTYVIO prefilled syringe and single-dose, disposable ENTYVIO prefilled pen (ENTYVIO PEN) are comprised of a 1 mL long glass syringe with a fixed 27 gauge thin wall, ½ inch needle. The syringe has a rubber needle cover encased in a plastic shell and rubber stopper. Not made with natural rubber latex. ENTYVIO: 108 mg/0.68 single-dose prefilled syringe in an individual carton: NDC 64764-107-11 ENTYVIO PEN : 108 mg/0.68 single-dose prefilled pen in an individual carton: NDC 64764-108-21 Storage and Handling Refrigerate ENTYVIO unopened vials, prefilled syringes, and prefilled pens at 2°C to 8°C (36° to 46°F). If needed, the ENTYVIO prefilled syringe or ENTYVIO PEN can be left out of the refrigerator in the original package at room temperature up to 25°C (77°F) for up to 7 days (for example, when traveling). Do not use ENTYVIO prefilled syringe or ENTYVIO PEN if left out of the refrigerator for more than 7 days. Do not freeze ENTYVIO vial, prefilled syringe, or prefilled pen. Do not use ENTYVIO vial, prefilled syringe, or prefilled pen if it has been frozen. Do not shake the ENTYVIO prefilled syringe or ENTYVIO PEN. Retain in original package to protect from light until the time of use.

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 6e94621c-1a95-4af9-98d1-52b9e6f1949c
