Name: Zaleplon

introduction: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zaleplon capsules are indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia. Zaleplon capsules have been shown to decrease the time to sleep onset for up to 30 days in controlled clinical studies (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). It has not been shown to increase total sleep time or decrease the number of awakenings. The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy ranged from a single night to 5 weeks in duration. The final formal assessments of sleep latency were performed at the end of treatment.

dosage_text: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of zaleplon capsules should be individualized. The recommended dose of zaleplon capsules for most nonelderly adults is 10 mg. For certain low weight individuals, 5 mg may be a sufficient dose. Although the risk of certain adverse events associated with the use of zaleplon capsules appears to be dose dependent, the 20 mg dose has been shown to be adequately tolerated and may be considered for the occasional patient who does not benefit from a trial of a lower dose. Doses above 20 mg have not been adequately evaluated and are not recommended. Zaleplon capsules should be taken immediately before bedtime or after the patient has gone to bed and has experienced difficulty falling asleep (see PRECAUTIONS ). Taking zaleplon capsules with or immediately after a heavy, high-fat meal results in slower absorption and would be expected to reduce the effect of zaleplon capsules on sleep latency (see Pharmacokinetics under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Special Populations Elderly patients and debilitated patients appear to be more sensitive to the effects of hypnotics, and respond to 5 mg of zaleplon capsules. The recommended dose for these patients is therefore 5 mg. Doses over 10 mg are not recommended. Hepatic insufficiency: Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment should be treated with zaleplon capsules 5 mg because clearance is reduced in this population. Zaleplon capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Renal insufficiency: No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Zaleplon capsules have not been adequately studied in patients with severe renal impairment. An initial dose of 5 mg should be given to patients concomitantly taking cimetidine because zaleplon clearance is reduced in this population (see Drug Interactions under PRECAUTIONS ).

how_to_use: HOW SUPPLIED Zaleplon capsules USP 10 mg are available as hard gelatin capsules with dark blue cap and dark blue body imprinted with "U" on cap and "132" on the body in black ink along the horizontal axis. Bottle of 10: NDC 43063-783-10 WARNINGS Complex Sleep Behaviors Complex sleep behaviors including sleep-walking, sleep-driving, and engaging in other activities while not fully awake may occur following the first or any subsequent use of zaleplon. Patients can be seriously injured or injure others during complex sleep behaviors. Such injuries may result in a fatal outcome. a. Other complex sleep behaviors (e.g., preparing and eating food, making phone calls, or having sex) have also been reported. Patients usually do not remember these events. Post-marketing reports have shown that complex sleep behaviors may occur with zaleplon alone at recommended dosages, with or without the concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants. CNS-Depressant Effects and Next-Day Impairment Zaleplon, like other hypnotics, has CNS-depressant effects. Because of the rapid onset of action, zaleplon should only be ingested immediately prior to going to bed or after the patient has gone to bed and has experienced difficulty falling asleep . Coadministration with other CNS depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants, alcohol) increases the risk of CNS depression. Dosage adjustments of zaleplon and of other concomitant CNS depressants may be necessary when zaleplon is administered with such agents because of the potentially additive effects. The use of zaleplon with other sedative-hypnotics at bedtime or the middle of the night is not recommended (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). The risk of next-day psychomotor impairment, including impaired driving, is increased if zaleplon is taken with less than a full night of sleep remaining (7 to 8 hours); if a higher than the recommended dose is taken; if coadministered with other CNS depressants or alcohol; or if coadministered with other drugs that increase the blood levels of zaleplon. Patients should be warned against driving and other activities requiring complete mental alertness if zaleplon is taken in these circumstances (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Vehicle drivers and machine operators should be warned that, as with other hypnotics, there may be a possible risk of adverse reactions including drowsiness, prolonged reaction time, dizziness, sleepiness, blurred/double vision, reduced alertness, and impaired driving the morning after therapy. In order to minimize this risk a full night of sleep (7-8 hours) is recommended. Because zaleplon can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, patients, particularly the elderly, are at higher risk of falls. Need to Evaluate for Co-morbid Diagnoses Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and/or psychiatric disorder, symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after a careful evaluation of the patient. The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and/or medical illness that should be evaluated. Worsening of insomnia or the emergence of new thinking or behavior abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder. Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with sedative/hypnotic drugs, including zaleplon. Because some of the important adverse effects of zaleplon appear to be dose-related, it is important to use the lowest possible effective dose, especially in the elderly (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions Rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue, glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative-hypnotics, including zaleplon. Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea, throat closing, or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis. Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis or larynx, airway obstruction may occur and be fatal. Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with zaleplon should not be rechallenged with the drug. Abnormal Thinking and Behavioral Changes A variety of abnormal thinking and behavior changes have been reported to occur in association with the use of sedative/hypnotics. Some of these changes may be characterized by decreased inhibition (e.g., aggressiveness and extroversion that seem out of character), similar to effects produced by alcohol and other CNS depressants. Other reported behavioral changes have included bizarre behavior, agitation, hallucinations, and depersonalization. Amnesia and other neuropsychiatric symptoms may occur unpredictably. It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced, spontaneous in origin, or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder. Nonetheless, the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation. Withdrawal Effects Following rapid dose decrease or abrupt discontinuation of the use of sedative/hypnotics, there have been reports of signs and symptoms similar to those associated with withdrawal from other CNS-depressant drugs (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ).

sources: OpenFDA label set_id: 2cc7adee-2c4c-4fed-9914-545e70dba773
